content/Containerize.Blog/2021-01-22-how-to-create-an-online-store-with-woocommerce/index.md, before:

---
title: How To Create An Online Store With WooCommerce Cart
seoTitle: How To Create An Online Store With WooCommerce Cart
description: WooCommerce is one of the best WordPress shopping cart plugin out there for creating an online shop. It helps companies to expand business on a large scale.
date: Fri, 22 Jan 2021 18:19:24 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Create an online store with free WordPress plugin and quickly start selling to customers. Manage WordPress website and store from a single interface.
url: /shopping-cart-software/how-to-create-an-online-store-with-woocommerce/
categories: ['Shopping Cart Software']

---
## Create an online store with free WordPress plugin and quickly start selling to customers. Manage WordPress website and store from a single interface.

{{< figure align=center src="images/create-woocomerce-store.png" alt="WordPress Shopping Cart Plugin">}}  

Most of you are familiar with WordPress. WordPress is one of the leading platform for creating websites, blogs etc. There are tons of plugins available at marketplace that allow you to enhance the functionality. One of them is **WooCommerce cart** plugin helps users to set up online store. **WooCommerce** is one of the **best eCommerce plugin for WordPress**, easy-to-use, customizable and robust eCommerce platform. Moreover, it’s built on top of WordPress and use its power to quickly turn your business to large audience.

We will cover the following topics in this tutorial.

  * [**Install WordPress**][1]
  * [**Install WooCommerce Plugin**][2]
  * [**Setup Store With WooCommerce**][3]
  * [**Conclusion**][4]

## Install WordPress {#WordPress}

You can skip this section and move to the next one if you already have WordPress installed. In case you don’t have WordPress setup, you can find step by step guideline for installation at [**containerize.com**][5].

## Install WooCommerce Plugin {#WooCommerce}

In order to set up WooCommerce, follow these steps:

  * Login to admin panel of your WordPress site.
  * Navigate to **Plugins** and click **Add New** button.
  * Type **WooCommerce** in the search field and you will see it as the first search result.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-1-1024x367.png" alt="Install WooCommerce Plugin">}}  

  * Click **Install Now** button next to WooCommerce plugin.
  * It would take few moments for installation. Click on **Activate** button once you done with installation.

## Setup Store With WooCommerce {#Setup}

The Setup Wizard guides you through all the required steps to create your store. Follow the below steps and your store will be ready to start selling.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-2-1024x371.png" alt="Setup store with WooCommerce">}}  

  * Set location for your store.
  * Select in which industry your store operate.
  * Select type of products that will be listed at your store.
  * You need to provide information about your business in this step.
  * Choose appropriate theme for your store. You can choose free or paid one from the list. Also, you can upload your own theme as well.
  * Once you are done with the wizard, you need to set up few pages such as products, payments, tax, shipping, and personalize store as shown in the below screen.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-3.png" alt="Store Setup Checklist">}}  

## Conclusion {#Conclusion}

We’ve discussed how to setup WordPress and **WooCommerce cart** in this tutorial. We hope that this guide will help you build your online store. However, you may check out **WooCommerce Storefront** for selecting right theme for the shop.

Further, [**containerize.com**][6] is on the way to enhance the stack of open source products in multiple languages and frameworks. For regular updates, please stay tuned at [**Shopping Cart Software**][7] category for more interesting articles.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant:

  * [**WordPress – Open Source Blogging And CMS Platform**][5]
  * [**WooCommerce – Free WordPress Plugin For Building Store**][8]
  * [**Top 5 Open Source Shopping Cart Software in 2020**][9]

 [1]: #WordPress
 [2]: #WooCommerce
 [3]: #Setup
 [4]: #Conclusion
 [5]: https://products.containerize.com/blogging/wordpress
 [6]: https://containerize.com
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/shopping-cart-software/
 [8]: https://products.containerize.com/ecommerce/woocommerce
 [9]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/11/27/top-5-open-source-shopping-cart-software-in-2020/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-01-22-how-to-create-an-online-store-with-woocommerce/index.md, after:

---
title: How To Create An Online Store With WooCommerce Cart
seoTitle: How To Create An Online Store With WooCommerce Cart
description: WooCommerce is one of the best WordPress shopping cart plugin out there for creating an online shop. It helps companies to expand business on a large scale.
date: Fri, 22 Jan 2021 18:19:24 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Create an online store with free WordPress plugin and quickly start selling to customers. Manage WordPress website and store from a single interface.
url: /shopping-cart-software/how-to-create-an-online-store-with-woocommerce/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/01/22/how-to-create-an-online-store-with-woocommerce/
categories: ['Shopping Cart Software']

---
## Create an online store with free WordPress plugin and quickly start selling to customers. Manage WordPress website and store from a single interface.

{{< figure align=center src="images/create-woocomerce-store.png" alt="WordPress Shopping Cart Plugin">}}  

Most of you are familiar with WordPress. WordPress is one of the leading platform for creating websites, blogs etc. There are tons of plugins available at marketplace that allow you to enhance the functionality. One of them is **WooCommerce cart** plugin helps users to set up online store. **WooCommerce** is one of the **best eCommerce plugin for WordPress**, easy-to-use, customizable and robust eCommerce platform. Moreover, it’s built on top of WordPress and use its power to quickly turn your business to large audience.

We will cover the following topics in this tutorial.

  * [**Install WordPress**][1]
  * [**Install WooCommerce Plugin**][2]
  * [**Setup Store With WooCommerce**][3]
  * [**Conclusion**][4]

## Install WordPress {#WordPress}

You can skip this section and move to the next one if you already have WordPress installed. In case you don’t have WordPress setup, you can find step by step guideline for installation at [**containerize.com**][5].

## Install WooCommerce Plugin {#WooCommerce}

In order to set up WooCommerce, follow these steps:

  * Login to admin panel of your WordPress site.
  * Navigate to **Plugins** and click **Add New** button.
  * Type **WooCommerce** in the search field and you will see it as the first search result.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-1-1024x367.png" alt="Install WooCommerce Plugin">}}  

  * Click **Install Now** button next to WooCommerce plugin.
  * It would take few moments for installation. Click on **Activate** button once you done with installation.

## Setup Store With WooCommerce {#Setup}

The Setup Wizard guides you through all the required steps to create your store. Follow the below steps and your store will be ready to start selling.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-2-1024x371.png" alt="Setup store with WooCommerce">}}  

  * Set location for your store.
  * Select in which industry your store operate.
  * Select type of products that will be listed at your store.
  * You need to provide information about your business in this step.
  * Choose appropriate theme for your store. You can choose free or paid one from the list. Also, you can upload your own theme as well.
  * Once you are done with the wizard, you need to set up few pages such as products, payments, tax, shipping, and personalize store as shown in the below screen.

{{< figure align=center src="images/WooCommerce-3.png" alt="Store Setup Checklist">}}  

## Conclusion {#Conclusion}

We’ve discussed how to setup WordPress and **WooCommerce cart** in this tutorial. We hope that this guide will help you build your online store. However, you may check out **WooCommerce Storefront** for selecting right theme for the shop.

Further, [**containerize.com**][6] is on the way to enhance the stack of open source products in multiple languages and frameworks. For regular updates, please stay tuned at [**Shopping Cart Software**][7] category for more interesting articles.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant:

  * [**WordPress – Open Source Blogging And CMS Platform**][5]
  * [**WooCommerce – Free WordPress Plugin For Building Store**][8]
  * [**Top 5 Open Source Shopping Cart Software in 2020**][9]

 [1]: #WordPress
 [2]: #WooCommerce
 [3]: #Setup
 [4]: #Conclusion
 [5]: https://products.containerize.com/blogging/wordpress
 [6]: https://containerize.com
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/shopping-cart-software/
 [8]: https://products.containerize.com/ecommerce/woocommerce
 [9]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/11/27/top-5-open-source-shopping-cart-software-in-2020/
