content/Containerize.Blog/2021-04-09-software-development-trends-to-look-out-for-in-2021/index.md, before:

---
title: Software development trends to look out for in 2021
seoTitle: Software development trends to look out for in 2021
description: The latest software development trends that will dominate the technology sector include blockchain, artificial intelligence, no-code, and more novel trends.
date: Fri, 09 Apr 2021 11:46:14 +0000
author: yasir saeed
summary: Are you interested in the latest software trends? This article shares insights about the latest software development trends that will dominate the industry.
url: /blockchain-platforms/software-development-trends-to-look-out-for-in-2021/
categories: ['Blockchain Platforms', 'Rapid Application Development']

---
## Are you interested in the latest software trends? This article shares insights about the latest software development trends that will dominate the industry.

{{< figure align=center src="images/b-2.png" alt="Software development trends to look out for in 2021">}}  

## **Overview**

Software development is constantly evolving and every tech professional knows the importance of of the latest industry trends. You can not restrict advancements in technology. Because it is unstoppable and it keeps growing. From DevSecOps to deployment tools, software development trends change as fast as technology itself.

To stay current, you not only need to consider the present state of technology. But you must also be interested in the future emerging trends in software engineering. In this blog post we have compiled the following today’s most popular software development trends in the IT industry:

  * Artificial Intelligence (AI)
  * Cross-Platform Development Tools
  * Integration of Blockchain
  * Internet of Things (IoT)
  * Low-Code Development
  * Conclusion

#### **Trend 1: Artificial Intelligence (AI)**

Modern technology is powerful enough to make AI software solutions. An artificial intelligence is a software that thinks intelligently in a broad sense, like a person. Because the future of software development and the future of technology lies within algorithms, machine learning, the neural network and AI tools to draw new and fascinating conclusions. AI software solutions are dominant force of trending technologies in software development in the technological world of today.

Nowadays, developers seek solutions in artificial intelligence area through continuous practice and machines can think intelligently like humans. AI is expected to gain traction in 2021 as top trends in software development, given that companies with AI software capabilities are likely to succeed. The area of Natural Language Processing is of particular interest because of new technology in software development in AI. 2021 latest software development trends are bringing more development skills, chat-bots by making every task automatic and reducing human involvement.

<strong id="cross-platform-development-tools
">Trend 2: Cross-Platform Development Tools</strong>

In the past, application development often meant choosing to start from a single platform, like iOS or Android. Business firms could create version for a different platform. Because it required them to devote development and maintenance resource to porting code between each operating system. But now when business firms and startups think about building a mobile app, their minds go straight to cross-platform application development.

Modern cross-platform development tools like Xamarin, the Google-owned Flutter etc are one of many development trends that gives companies the ability to cut development and maintenance costs. With cross-platform current trends in software development environments like software developers can write apps that work on multiple platforms like Android, iOS, and Windows simultaneously.

**Trend 3: Blockchain**

Blockchain technology is well-known for its own cryptocurrency revolution which help prevent fraud in sensitive transactions. The beauty of blockchain is its decentralized nature because it simplifies many banking operations. Companies are moving toward blockchain development because it can store any type of record in a public facing database

Blockchain is one of the latest extremely secure top trends in software development in technology. Software developers and companies are finding new and interesting ways to implement blockchain. Blockchain-based apps known distributed apps or dApps, are emerging because as a popular technological developments. Blockchain software development trends 2021 functions are likely to increase like use within smart contract platforms.

**Trend 4: Internet of Things (IoT)**

The Internet of Things is rapidly expanding to include the latest advancement in 2021 software development trends. As technologies like 5G, AI and Big Data begin to roll out so you will see exponential growth and success in demand across all security and customer service areas. Software manufacturers have also started investing in the development of IoT-enabled products and by 2021 over 90% of cars will expect to connect with IoT.

IoT has penetrated profoundly into the everyday human routine to track and monitor the world around us. IoT is the inter-connectivity of computer devices in everyday life but with the help of the internet. There will be 65 billion IoT devices worldwide by 2025.

**Trend 5: Low-Code Development**

Low-code platforms are a source of creativity and unique development outcomes in application development. Because these encourage IT experts to build their own solutions. Software development has required teams of dedicated developers, web coders and IT experts to bring solutions to life. But as the demand for building applications in a fast and simpler way is growing. That’s why now low-code or no-code programming tools are must for businesses. More and more low-code platforms are appearing that require the ability to move forward easily with new initiatives.

Low-code development to code applications through graphical user interfaces is becoming popular because latest software development trends. Low-code development platforms often feature drag-and-drop graphical user interfaces. But it help visualize applications without requiring programmers to get down in the weeds. A lot of human experience, expertise and resources were needed to develop a great application so it required extra money . That’s why development teams have begun to accept low-code as the latest trends in software engineering. So, It helps to build easy fast applications without an extra investment of time and money. Low-code development ability is becoming more commonplace and will grow in 2021.

## **Conclusion**: {#Conclusion}

Over the last few years, the advancement in software development made it necessary for companies to keep going. For software tech professionals and developers, software development trends tend to indicate where the industry is headed. New trends in software development 2021, methods and customer preferences can be key indicators regarding where you should focus your development skills. Staying on top of new and latest technology trends is a great way to improve your software development skills.

_What are your the most favorite software trends?. Do you have any questions about the latest software trends?, Please_ [get in touch][1].

## Explore

You may find following links relevant:

  * [Top 5 Open Source Blockchain Platforms In 2020][2]
  * [How Decentralized Technology Upgrades Your Business Strategy][3]
  * [How Free Business Analytics Tools Assist Your Business][4]
  * [How RAD Software Helps You To Grow Business to Next Level][5]

 [1]: mailto:yasir.saeed@aspose.com
 [2]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/12/11/top-5-open-source-blockchain-platforms-in-2020/
 [3]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/11/27/how-decentralized-technology-upgrades-your-business-strategy/
 [4]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/03/12/how-free-business-analytics-tools-assist-your-business/
 [5]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/10/23/how-rad-software-helps-you-to-grow-business-to-next-level/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-04-09-software-development-trends-to-look-out-for-in-2021/index.md, after:

---
title: Software development trends to look out for in 2021
seoTitle: Software development trends to look out for in 2021
description: The latest software development trends that will dominate the technology sector include blockchain, artificial intelligence, no-code, and more novel trends.
date: Fri, 09 Apr 2021 11:46:14 +0000
author: yasir saeed
summary: Are you interested in the latest software trends? This article shares insights about the latest software development trends that will dominate the industry.
url: /blockchain-platforms/software-development-trends-to-look-out-for-in-2021/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/04/09/software-development-trends-to-look-out-for-in-2021/
categories: ['Blockchain Platforms', 'Rapid Application Development']

---
## Are you interested in the latest software trends? This article shares insights about the latest software development trends that will dominate the industry.

{{< figure align=center src="images/b-2.png" alt="Software development trends to look out for in 2021">}}  

## **Overview**

Software development is constantly evolving and every tech professional knows the importance of of the latest industry trends. You can not restrict advancements in technology. Because it is unstoppable and it keeps growing. From DevSecOps to deployment tools, software development trends change as fast as technology itself.

To stay current, you not only need to consider the present state of technology. But you must also be interested in the future emerging trends in software engineering. In this blog post we have compiled the following today’s most popular software development trends in the IT industry:

  * Artificial Intelligence (AI)
  * Cross-Platform Development Tools
  * Integration of Blockchain
  * Internet of Things (IoT)
  * Low-Code Development
  * Conclusion

#### **Trend 1: Artificial Intelligence (AI)**

Modern technology is powerful enough to make AI software solutions. An artificial intelligence is a software that thinks intelligently in a broad sense, like a person. Because the future of software development and the future of technology lies within algorithms, machine learning, the neural network and AI tools to draw new and fascinating conclusions. AI software solutions are dominant force of trending technologies in software development in the technological world of today.

Nowadays, developers seek solutions in artificial intelligence area through continuous practice and machines can think intelligently like humans. AI is expected to gain traction in 2021 as top trends in software development, given that companies with AI software capabilities are likely to succeed. The area of Natural Language Processing is of particular interest because of new technology in software development in AI. 2021 latest software development trends are bringing more development skills, chat-bots by making every task automatic and reducing human involvement.

<strong id="cross-platform-development-tools
">Trend 2: Cross-Platform Development Tools</strong>

In the past, application development often meant choosing to start from a single platform, like iOS or Android. Business firms could create version for a different platform. Because it required them to devote development and maintenance resource to porting code between each operating system. But now when business firms and startups think about building a mobile app, their minds go straight to cross-platform application development.

Modern cross-platform development tools like Xamarin, the Google-owned Flutter etc are one of many development trends that gives companies the ability to cut development and maintenance costs. With cross-platform current trends in software development environments like software developers can write apps that work on multiple platforms like Android, iOS, and Windows simultaneously.

**Trend 3: Blockchain**

Blockchain technology is well-known for its own cryptocurrency revolution which help prevent fraud in sensitive transactions. The beauty of blockchain is its decentralized nature because it simplifies many banking operations. Companies are moving toward blockchain development because it can store any type of record in a public facing database

Blockchain is one of the latest extremely secure top trends in software development in technology. Software developers and companies are finding new and interesting ways to implement blockchain. Blockchain-based apps known distributed apps or dApps, are emerging because as a popular technological developments. Blockchain software development trends 2021 functions are likely to increase like use within smart contract platforms.

**Trend 4: Internet of Things (IoT)**

The Internet of Things is rapidly expanding to include the latest advancement in 2021 software development trends. As technologies like 5G, AI and Big Data begin to roll out so you will see exponential growth and success in demand across all security and customer service areas. Software manufacturers have also started investing in the development of IoT-enabled products and by 2021 over 90% of cars will expect to connect with IoT.

IoT has penetrated profoundly into the everyday human routine to track and monitor the world around us. IoT is the inter-connectivity of computer devices in everyday life but with the help of the internet. There will be 65 billion IoT devices worldwide by 2025.

**Trend 5: Low-Code Development**

Low-code platforms are a source of creativity and unique development outcomes in application development. Because these encourage IT experts to build their own solutions. Software development has required teams of dedicated developers, web coders and IT experts to bring solutions to life. But as the demand for building applications in a fast and simpler way is growing. That’s why now low-code or no-code programming tools are must for businesses. More and more low-code platforms are appearing that require the ability to move forward easily with new initiatives.

Low-code development to code applications through graphical user interfaces is becoming popular because latest software development trends. Low-code development platforms often feature drag-and-drop graphical user interfaces. But it help visualize applications without requiring programmers to get down in the weeds. A lot of human experience, expertise and resources were needed to develop a great application so it required extra money . That’s why development teams have begun to accept low-code as the latest trends in software engineering. So, It helps to build easy fast applications without an extra investment of time and money. Low-code development ability is becoming more commonplace and will grow in 2021.

## **Conclusion**: {#Conclusion}

Over the last few years, the advancement in software development made it necessary for companies to keep going. For software tech professionals and developers, software development trends tend to indicate where the industry is headed. New trends in software development 2021, methods and customer preferences can be key indicators regarding where you should focus your development skills. Staying on top of new and latest technology trends is a great way to improve your software development skills.

_What are your the most favorite software trends?. Do you have any questions about the latest software trends?, Please_ [get in touch][1].

## Explore

You may find following links relevant:

  * [Top 5 Open Source Blockchain Platforms In 2020][2]
  * [How Decentralized Technology Upgrades Your Business Strategy][3]
  * [How Free Business Analytics Tools Assist Your Business][4]
  * [How RAD Software Helps You To Grow Business to Next Level][5]

 [1]: mailto:yasir.saeed@aspose.com
 [2]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/12/11/top-5-open-source-blockchain-platforms-in-2020/
 [3]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/11/27/how-decentralized-technology-upgrades-your-business-strategy/
 [4]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/03/12/how-free-business-analytics-tools-assist-your-business/
 [5]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/10/23/how-rad-software-helps-you-to-grow-business-to-next-level/
