content/Containerize.Blog/2021-03-12-top-5-open-source-deployment-tools-in-the-year-2021/index.md, before:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Deployment Tools In 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Deployment Tools In 2021
description: Boost productivity by incorporating the best open source CI/CD tools, which allow teams to automate software building, testing, and deployment processes.
date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 18:53:10 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Automate software building, testing, and deployment workflows with free deployment tools. We have compiled a list of top 5 open source deployment software.
url: /deployment-tools/top-5-open-source-deployment-tools-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Deployment Tools']

---
## Automate software building, testing, and deployment workflows with free deployment tools. We have compiled a list of top 5 open source deployment software.

{{< figure align=center src="images/deployment-tools-blog-post.png" alt="Free Software Deployment Tools">}}  

**Free software deployment tools** help teams to automate application building, testing, and deployment processes. It helps developers to focus on development tasks, increase efficiency and productivity. There are plenty of free deployment tools available in the market. However, we will discuss the 5 **best open source CI/CD tools** in this post.

  * [Jenkins][1]
  * [Drone][2]
  * [Deployer][3]
  * [Capistrano][4]
  * [Rancher][5]

## Jenkins {#Jenkins}

[**Jenkins**][6] is an open source automation server that is widely used. It is a completely free deployment platform that includes features including continuous integration and continuous deployment. **Jenkins** is an open source server that includes several plugins for building, testing, and deploying applications. Further, it is a dependable, extensible, and versatile deployment tool. Jenkins is built on a Master-Slave architecture. This **open source deployment tool** is written in Java and source code is available at [GitHub][7].

Following are the key features of Jenkins:

  * Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery
  * Simple and easy-to-use user interface
  * Easy installation and configuration
  * Supports plugins
  * Build status notifications

[**Learn more about Jenkins**][8]

## Drone {#Drone}

[**Drone**][9] is a modern free and open source CI/CD tool. It works as a middle layer between Docker and a repository provider. **Drone** needs the repository account information to bootstrap its authentication, user, and permissions models. Further, it comes with multiple database backends and repository providers. Moreover, it has out-of-the-box support for setting up TLS/SSL certificates. Developers can also create plugins in any language and publish them as Containers for usage in Drone. The Drone is written in Go language and its source code is available on [GitHub][10]. This **open source continuous integration** tool is released under the Apache License.

Here is a list of the key feature for Drone:

  * Isolated Builds
  * Supports Popular Source Code Management Systems
  * Easily Configure Pipelines
  * Supports Multiple Operating Systems
  * Supports Plugins

[**Learn more about Drone**][11]

## Deployer {#Deployer}

[**Deployer**][12] is a free and **open source deployment tool**. It is designed for handling the deployment of PHP-based applications. It is easy to use and has a low learning curve. **Deployer** has built-in recipes for popular PHP frameworks, content management systems, and shopping cart applications. It is a command-line tool that does not require the installation of a client or agent. Further, you can deploy PHP applications with no downtime. Moreover, it allows developers to quickly rollback to the previous version. Its source code is also available on [GitHub][13].

Deployer offers the following key points:

  * Supports popular PHP frameworks
  * CLI tool
  * Zero downtime deployments
  * Quickly rollback to previous version
  * No Agents, just use SSH

[**Learn more about Deployer**][14]

## Capistrano {#Capistrano}

[**Capistrano**][15] is another one of the best **free deployment tool** for deploying web applications. It allows teams to build automated deployment scripts. **Capistrano** can deploy web applications on multiple servers concurrently. It also helps teams to identify deployment for multiple stages, such as development, staging, and production, all at once. This free deployment software is written in Ruby. Besides, Capistrano can be easily integrated with any other Ruby application. The license for this open source deployment tool is MIT and source code is available at [GitHub][16].

Capistrano supports the following important features:

  * Multiple stages
  * Strong conventions
  * Parallel execution
  * RubyGems package manager
  * Supports plugins

[**Learn more about Capistrano**][17]

## Rancher {#Rancher}

[**Rancher**][18] is a free self-hosted **container management tool**. Software teams can easily use it for the management of containerized applications. It provides a comprehensive set of services for containers, networking, storage, host management, and load balancing. **Rancher** offers integration with a wide range of popular services for container operations such as Aqua, GitLab, Sysdig, Datadog, Artifactory, Portworx, and Calico. It is written in Go and source code is available at [GitHub][19]. The license for this open source **container management platform** is Apache-2.0.

Rancher comes up with the following key features:

  * Cross-host networking
  * Container load balancing
  * Persistent Storage Services
  * Resource management
  * Multi-tenancy

[**Learn more about Rancher**][20]

## Conclusion

We have looked at the top 5 free software deployment tools in this post. Every piece of software is commonly used and backed up by a vibrant community. All of these tools make it possible for software development teams to simplify deployment workflows. You may choose a deployment tool based on a variety of factors such as technology stack, learning curve, and features. We hope that this article will assist you in choosing the best tool for your business.

Finally, [containerize.com][21] is in a consistent process of writing blog posts on further latest open source products. Therefore, stay in touch with this [Deployment Tools][22] category for the latest updates.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant:

  * [Jenkins – Free Deployment Tool][6]
  * [Drone – Open Source Deployment Tool][9]
  * [Deployer – PHP Deployment Tool][12]
  * [Capistrano – Open Source Deployment Tool][15]
  * [Rancher – Container Management Platform][18]

 [1]: #Jenkins
 [2]: #Drone
 [3]: #Deployer
 [4]: #Capistrano
 [5]: #Rancher
 [6]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/jenkins
 [7]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins
 [8]: https://www.jenkins.io
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/drone
 [10]: https://github.com/drone/drone
 [11]: https://www.drone.io
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/deployer
 [13]: https://github.com/deployphp/deployer
 [14]: https://deployer.org
 [15]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/capistrano
 [16]: https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano
 [17]: https://capistranorb.com
 [18]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/rancher
 [19]: https://github.com/rancher/rancher
 [20]: https://rancher.com
 [21]: https://containerize.com
 [22]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/deployment-tools/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-03-12-top-5-open-source-deployment-tools-in-the-year-2021/index.md, after:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Deployment Tools In 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Deployment Tools In 2021
description: Boost productivity by incorporating the best open source CI/CD tools, which allow teams to automate software building, testing, and deployment processes.
date: Fri, 12 Mar 2021 18:53:10 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Automate software building, testing, and deployment workflows with free deployment tools. We have compiled a list of top 5 open source deployment software.
url: /deployment-tools/top-5-open-source-deployment-tools-in-the-year-2021/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/03/12/top-5-open-source-deployment-tools-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Deployment Tools']

---
## Automate software building, testing, and deployment workflows with free deployment tools. We have compiled a list of top 5 open source deployment software.

{{< figure align=center src="images/deployment-tools-blog-post.png" alt="Free Software Deployment Tools">}}  

**Free software deployment tools** help teams to automate application building, testing, and deployment processes. It helps developers to focus on development tasks, increase efficiency and productivity. There are plenty of free deployment tools available in the market. However, we will discuss the 5 **best open source CI/CD tools** in this post.

  * [Jenkins][1]
  * [Drone][2]
  * [Deployer][3]
  * [Capistrano][4]
  * [Rancher][5]

## Jenkins {#Jenkins}

[**Jenkins**][6] is an open source automation server that is widely used. It is a completely free deployment platform that includes features including continuous integration and continuous deployment. **Jenkins** is an open source server that includes several plugins for building, testing, and deploying applications. Further, it is a dependable, extensible, and versatile deployment tool. Jenkins is built on a Master-Slave architecture. This **open source deployment tool** is written in Java and source code is available at [GitHub][7].

Following are the key features of Jenkins:

  * Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery
  * Simple and easy-to-use user interface
  * Easy installation and configuration
  * Supports plugins
  * Build status notifications

[**Learn more about Jenkins**][8]

## Drone {#Drone}

[**Drone**][9] is a modern free and open source CI/CD tool. It works as a middle layer between Docker and a repository provider. **Drone** needs the repository account information to bootstrap its authentication, user, and permissions models. Further, it comes with multiple database backends and repository providers. Moreover, it has out-of-the-box support for setting up TLS/SSL certificates. Developers can also create plugins in any language and publish them as Containers for usage in Drone. The Drone is written in Go language and its source code is available on [GitHub][10]. This **open source continuous integration** tool is released under the Apache License.

Here is a list of the key feature for Drone:

  * Isolated Builds
  * Supports Popular Source Code Management Systems
  * Easily Configure Pipelines
  * Supports Multiple Operating Systems
  * Supports Plugins

[**Learn more about Drone**][11]

## Deployer {#Deployer}

[**Deployer**][12] is a free and **open source deployment tool**. It is designed for handling the deployment of PHP-based applications. It is easy to use and has a low learning curve. **Deployer** has built-in recipes for popular PHP frameworks, content management systems, and shopping cart applications. It is a command-line tool that does not require the installation of a client or agent. Further, you can deploy PHP applications with no downtime. Moreover, it allows developers to quickly rollback to the previous version. Its source code is also available on [GitHub][13].

Deployer offers the following key points:

  * Supports popular PHP frameworks
  * CLI tool
  * Zero downtime deployments
  * Quickly rollback to previous version
  * No Agents, just use SSH

[**Learn more about Deployer**][14]

## Capistrano {#Capistrano}

[**Capistrano**][15] is another one of the best **free deployment tool** for deploying web applications. It allows teams to build automated deployment scripts. **Capistrano** can deploy web applications on multiple servers concurrently. It also helps teams to identify deployment for multiple stages, such as development, staging, and production, all at once. This free deployment software is written in Ruby. Besides, Capistrano can be easily integrated with any other Ruby application. The license for this open source deployment tool is MIT and source code is available at [GitHub][16].

Capistrano supports the following important features:

  * Multiple stages
  * Strong conventions
  * Parallel execution
  * RubyGems package manager
  * Supports plugins

[**Learn more about Capistrano**][17]

## Rancher {#Rancher}

[**Rancher**][18] is a free self-hosted **container management tool**. Software teams can easily use it for the management of containerized applications. It provides a comprehensive set of services for containers, networking, storage, host management, and load balancing. **Rancher** offers integration with a wide range of popular services for container operations such as Aqua, GitLab, Sysdig, Datadog, Artifactory, Portworx, and Calico. It is written in Go and source code is available at [GitHub][19]. The license for this open source **container management platform** is Apache-2.0.

Rancher comes up with the following key features:

  * Cross-host networking
  * Container load balancing
  * Persistent Storage Services
  * Resource management
  * Multi-tenancy

[**Learn more about Rancher**][20]

## Conclusion

We have looked at the top 5 free software deployment tools in this post. Every piece of software is commonly used and backed up by a vibrant community. All of these tools make it possible for software development teams to simplify deployment workflows. You may choose a deployment tool based on a variety of factors such as technology stack, learning curve, and features. We hope that this article will assist you in choosing the best tool for your business.

Finally, [containerize.com][21] is in a consistent process of writing blog posts on further latest open source products. Therefore, stay in touch with this [Deployment Tools][22] category for the latest updates.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant:

  * [Jenkins – Free Deployment Tool][6]
  * [Drone – Open Source Deployment Tool][9]
  * [Deployer – PHP Deployment Tool][12]
  * [Capistrano – Open Source Deployment Tool][15]
  * [Rancher – Container Management Platform][18]

 [1]: #Jenkins
 [2]: #Drone
 [3]: #Deployer
 [4]: #Capistrano
 [5]: #Rancher
 [6]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/jenkins
 [7]: https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins
 [8]: https://www.jenkins.io
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/drone
 [10]: https://github.com/drone/drone
 [11]: https://www.drone.io
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/deployer
 [13]: https://github.com/deployphp/deployer
 [14]: https://deployer.org
 [15]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/capistrano
 [16]: https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano
 [17]: https://capistranorb.com
 [18]: https://products.containerize.com/deployment-tools/rancher
 [19]: https://github.com/rancher/rancher
 [20]: https://rancher.com
 [21]: https://containerize.com
 [22]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/deployment-tools/
