content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-17-how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/index.md, before:

---
title: How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT
seoTitle: How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT
description: 'Let artificial intelligence write & optimize source code using OpenAI API. VSCode Extension Code GPT is powered by GPT-3 which is an open-source NLP model.'
date: Tue, 17 Jan 2023 10:26:29 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: '<strong>This article will introduce ChatGPT for VSCode. An OpenAI code generator Code GPT is based on an open-source artificial intelligence-powered GPT-3 model.</strong>'
url: /artificial-intelligence/how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/
categories: ['Artificial intelligence']

---
## **This article will introduce ChatGPT for VSCode. An OpenAI code generator Code GPT is based on an open-source artificial intelligence-powered GPT-3 model.**

{{< figure align=center src="images/How-to-use-ChatGPT-in-VSCode-The-VSCode-Extension-CodeGPT-1.png" alt="VSCode Extension Code GPT">}}  

## Overview 

Think you are a beginner or an experienced level programmer and you have been working on a development project. So, what if [artificial intelligence-powered][1] **VSCode Extension Code GPT** assists you in writing source code in any programming language? For example, if you request AI to write the code for an HTML input element and AI returns “<input type=”text” id=” first name” name=” first name”>”. Amazing? 

Yes, it is not just amazing but a thought-provoking thing is AI going to generate the source code of our software. Well, this blog post will demonstrate an [OpenAI][2] **code generator** named [Code GPT][3], which is powered by [open-source][4] **GPT-3**. We will go through the installation, and setting up processes of this VSCode Extension Code GPT. In addition, we will also explore what it offers to the developers and the community. However, if you have skipped our recent blog post on **[ChatGPT][5]**, then must visit this [link][6] to get a detailed overview of this **AI chatbot.** 

We will cover the following points:

  * [**What is Code GPT?**][7]
  * [**How to install the VSCode extension Code GPT?**][8]
  * [**Retrieve OpenAI API Key & configure Code GPT**][9]
  * [**Start using Code GPT – an AI-Powered OpenAI Code Generator**][10]

## What is Code GPT? {#What-is-CodeGPT}

[Code GPT][3] is a **Visual Studio Code extension** that lets you generate code snippets from plain text within the editor. This **OpenAI code generator** is based on OpenAI API to process and generate responses of natural language. However, Code GPT is built on top of GPT-3 which is a pre-trained model, so every request made to Code GPT is processed by GPT-3 and this model is smart enough to adopt multiple situations. In addition, this **VSCode extension** lets you refractor and improves code snippets along with code generation. In fact, the whole environment gives you the exact feel that you are using [ChatGPT][11] in the Visual Studio Code editor. 

## How to install the VSCode extension Code GPT? {#How-to-install-the-VSCode-extension-CodeGPT}

In this section, we will go through the steps to install **VSCode Extension Code GPT.** For this purpose, make sure you have installed Visual Studio Code on your machine. You can install this extension from the **[VSCode marketplace][12]** easily. 

Open the VSCode editor, go into “Extensions” and type Code GPT into the search bar. There will be many extensions with the name CodeGPT but you have to Install the extension as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/codegpt-installation-1024x640.png" alt="code gpt installation">}}  

Please update the VSCode to the latest version in case you get a compatibility error. Moreover, this VSCode extension is under consistent development so the chance of abnormal behavior cannot be omitted.

## Retrieve OpenAI API Key & configure Code GPT  {#Retrieve-OpenAI-API-Key-configure-CodeGPT-}

Once the installation is completed, the next step is to get the API key from OpenAI’s [website][13]. You need this API key to enable the features of the **Code GPT extension**. To obtain the API, visit this [link][13], and create an account if not created already. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/openai-key-1024x630.png" alt="OepnAI API">}}  

In the image above, you can see the “Create new secret key” button. Click this button and you will get the key do keep it in a safe space. Now, the final step is to put this secret key in the settings of **VSCode extension Code GPT.** To achieve that, perform the following steps:

  * Press “command+shift+p”
  * Write Code GPT and select the “CodeGPT: set API key”
  * Finally, insert the Key and press “Enter” as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/openai-API-1024x606.png" alt="chatgpt for vscode">}}  

Once all is done successfully, you will end up having **Code GPT extension** installed in your Visual Studio Code. In the next section, we will go deep further to explore the features offered by this VSCode extension.

## Start using Code GPT – an AI-Powered OpenAI Code Generator {#Start-using-CodeGPT---an-AI-Powered-OpenAI-Code-Generator}

So far, we have set up Code GPT extension in Visual Studio Code. To leverage this **VSCode extension Code GPT**, press “command+shift+p” select “Ask CodeGPT” and write your question in the input field such as “write code for an input element in HTML” and you will get the response in the sidebar as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/chatgpt-for-vscode-1024x522.png" alt="chatgpt for vscode">}}  

In addition, you can select a piece of code and ask CodeGPT to explain the selected piece of code. For example, we have selected the code snippet, and asked VSCode extension “explain this code snippet” and the response is shown in the side panel as shown in the picture below. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/VSCode-Extension-Code-GPT-1024x398.png" alt="openapi code generator,">}}  

Basically, this response is generated and returned by the **open-source GPT-3 model**. Likewise, you have seen how cool this VSCode extension is and it is more like a ChatGPT for VSCode. 

## Wrapping Up

To conclude, we have enriched our Visual Studio Code editor with an **AI-powered OpenAI code generator.** This VSCode extension helps developers to generate, refractor, and document the source code in various programming languages. Further, you may ask **VSCode Extension Code GPT** to explain a specific part of the source code. Above all, you can find problems attached with a selected code snippet which can bring improvement suggested by this VSCode extension. Finally, there are some very relevant articles listed in the “See Also” section.

Lastly, [containerize.com][4] is continuously writing blog posts on further open-source products and topics. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][14], [LinkedIn][15], and [Twitter][16].

## Ask a Question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][17].

## FAQs

**What is Code GPT used for?**

[Code GPT][3] is an artificial intelligence-based code generation and optimization extension. This is built on top of open-source GPT-3 powered by OpenAI. For more details, visit this link.

**How to integrate Code GPT with VSCode?**

Please visit this [link][9] to install this AI-powered VSCode extension.

## See Also

  * [What is OpenAI Chatbot GPT-3 | ChatGPT an AI Revolution][6]
  * [Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][18]

 [1]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/artificial-intelligence/
 [2]: https://openai.com/
 [3]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=timkmecl.codegpt3
 [4]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GPT-3
 [6]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/10/what-is-openai-chatbot-gpt-3-chatgpt-an-ai-revolution/
 [7]: #What-is-CodeGPT
 [8]: #How-to-install-the-VSCode-extension-CodeGPT
 [9]: #Retrieve-OpenAI-API-Key-configure-CodeGPT-
 [10]: #Start-using-CodeGPT---an-AI-Powered-OpenAI-Code-Generator
 [11]: https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/
 [12]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode
 [13]: https://beta.openai.com/account/api-keys
 [14]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [15]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [16]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [17]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-17-how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/index.md, after:

---
title: How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT
seoTitle: How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT
description: 'Let artificial intelligence write & optimize source code using OpenAI API. VSCode Extension Code GPT is powered by GPT-3 which is an open-source NLP model.'
date: Tue, 17 Jan 2023 10:26:29 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: '<strong>This article will introduce ChatGPT for VSCode. An OpenAI code generator Code GPT is based on an open-source artificial intelligence-powered GPT-3 model.</strong>'
url: /artificial-intelligence/how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/
aliases: 
    -  /2023/01/17/how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/
categories: ['Artificial intelligence']

---
## **This article will introduce ChatGPT for VSCode. An OpenAI code generator Code GPT is based on an open-source artificial intelligence-powered GPT-3 model.**

{{< figure align=center src="images/How-to-use-ChatGPT-in-VSCode-The-VSCode-Extension-CodeGPT-1.png" alt="VSCode Extension Code GPT">}}  

## Overview 

Think you are a beginner or an experienced level programmer and you have been working on a development project. So, what if [artificial intelligence-powered][1] **VSCode Extension Code GPT** assists you in writing source code in any programming language? For example, if you request AI to write the code for an HTML input element and AI returns “<input type=”text” id=” first name” name=” first name”>”. Amazing? 

Yes, it is not just amazing but a thought-provoking thing is AI going to generate the source code of our software. Well, this blog post will demonstrate an [OpenAI][2] **code generator** named [Code GPT][3], which is powered by [open-source][4] **GPT-3**. We will go through the installation, and setting up processes of this VSCode Extension Code GPT. In addition, we will also explore what it offers to the developers and the community. However, if you have skipped our recent blog post on **[ChatGPT][5]**, then must visit this [link][6] to get a detailed overview of this **AI chatbot.** 

We will cover the following points:

  * [**What is Code GPT?**][7]
  * [**How to install the VSCode extension Code GPT?**][8]
  * [**Retrieve OpenAI API Key & configure Code GPT**][9]
  * [**Start using Code GPT – an AI-Powered OpenAI Code Generator**][10]

## What is Code GPT? {#What-is-CodeGPT}

[Code GPT][3] is a **Visual Studio Code extension** that lets you generate code snippets from plain text within the editor. This **OpenAI code generator** is based on OpenAI API to process and generate responses of natural language. However, Code GPT is built on top of GPT-3 which is a pre-trained model, so every request made to Code GPT is processed by GPT-3 and this model is smart enough to adopt multiple situations. In addition, this **VSCode extension** lets you refractor and improves code snippets along with code generation. In fact, the whole environment gives you the exact feel that you are using [ChatGPT][11] in the Visual Studio Code editor. 

## How to install the VSCode extension Code GPT? {#How-to-install-the-VSCode-extension-CodeGPT}

In this section, we will go through the steps to install **VSCode Extension Code GPT.** For this purpose, make sure you have installed Visual Studio Code on your machine. You can install this extension from the **[VSCode marketplace][12]** easily. 

Open the VSCode editor, go into “Extensions” and type Code GPT into the search bar. There will be many extensions with the name CodeGPT but you have to Install the extension as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/codegpt-installation-1024x640.png" alt="code gpt installation">}}  

Please update the VSCode to the latest version in case you get a compatibility error. Moreover, this VSCode extension is under consistent development so the chance of abnormal behavior cannot be omitted.

## Retrieve OpenAI API Key & configure Code GPT  {#Retrieve-OpenAI-API-Key-configure-CodeGPT-}

Once the installation is completed, the next step is to get the API key from OpenAI’s [website][13]. You need this API key to enable the features of the **Code GPT extension**. To obtain the API, visit this [link][13], and create an account if not created already. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/openai-key-1024x630.png" alt="OepnAI API">}}  

In the image above, you can see the “Create new secret key” button. Click this button and you will get the key do keep it in a safe space. Now, the final step is to put this secret key in the settings of **VSCode extension Code GPT.** To achieve that, perform the following steps:

  * Press “command+shift+p”
  * Write Code GPT and select the “CodeGPT: set API key”
  * Finally, insert the Key and press “Enter” as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/openai-API-1024x606.png" alt="chatgpt for vscode">}}  

Once all is done successfully, you will end up having **Code GPT extension** installed in your Visual Studio Code. In the next section, we will go deep further to explore the features offered by this VSCode extension.

## Start using Code GPT – an AI-Powered OpenAI Code Generator {#Start-using-CodeGPT---an-AI-Powered-OpenAI-Code-Generator}

So far, we have set up Code GPT extension in Visual Studio Code. To leverage this **VSCode extension Code GPT**, press “command+shift+p” select “Ask CodeGPT” and write your question in the input field such as “write code for an input element in HTML” and you will get the response in the sidebar as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/chatgpt-for-vscode-1024x522.png" alt="chatgpt for vscode">}}  

In addition, you can select a piece of code and ask CodeGPT to explain the selected piece of code. For example, we have selected the code snippet, and asked VSCode extension “explain this code snippet” and the response is shown in the side panel as shown in the picture below. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/VSCode-Extension-Code-GPT-1024x398.png" alt="openapi code generator,">}}  

Basically, this response is generated and returned by the **open-source GPT-3 model**. Likewise, you have seen how cool this VSCode extension is and it is more like a ChatGPT for VSCode. 

## Wrapping Up

To conclude, we have enriched our Visual Studio Code editor with an **AI-powered OpenAI code generator.** This VSCode extension helps developers to generate, refractor, and document the source code in various programming languages. Further, you may ask **VSCode Extension Code GPT** to explain a specific part of the source code. Above all, you can find problems attached with a selected code snippet which can bring improvement suggested by this VSCode extension. Finally, there are some very relevant articles listed in the “See Also” section.

Lastly, [containerize.com][4] is continuously writing blog posts on further open-source products and topics. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][14], [LinkedIn][15], and [Twitter][16].

## Ask a Question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][17].

## FAQs

**What is Code GPT used for?**

[Code GPT][3] is an artificial intelligence-based code generation and optimization extension. This is built on top of open-source GPT-3 powered by OpenAI. For more details, visit this link.

**How to integrate Code GPT with VSCode?**

Please visit this [link][9] to install this AI-powered VSCode extension.

## See Also

  * [What is OpenAI Chatbot GPT-3 | ChatGPT an AI Revolution][6]
  * [Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][18]

 [1]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/artificial-intelligence/
 [2]: https://openai.com/
 [3]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=timkmecl.codegpt3
 [4]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GPT-3
 [6]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/10/what-is-openai-chatbot-gpt-3-chatgpt-an-ai-revolution/
 [7]: #What-is-CodeGPT
 [8]: #How-to-install-the-VSCode-extension-CodeGPT
 [9]: #Retrieve-OpenAI-API-Key-configure-CodeGPT-
 [10]: #Start-using-CodeGPT---an-AI-Powered-OpenAI-Code-Generator
 [11]: https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/
 [12]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode
 [13]: https://beta.openai.com/account/api-keys
 [14]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [15]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [16]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [17]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/
