content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-14-how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/index.md, before:

---
title: How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub
seoTitle: How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub
description: Follow this guide to learn how to get started with an open-source social media platform. It offers a rich dashboard along with many enterprise-level features.
date: Sat, 14 Jan 2023 15:47:05 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: "Establish a public/private social network within your organization by using an open-source social network platform. Let's tour HumHub to see what it offers."
url: /social-network-platforms/how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/
categories: ['Social Network Platforms']

---
## Establish a public/private social network within your organization by using an open-source social network platform. Let’s tour HumHub to see what it offers.

{{< figure align=center src="images/How-to-Start-With-Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform-HumHub.png" alt="Open-Source Social Media Platform">}}  

## Overview

In the recent past, we published some interesting content on [open-source social media platforms][1]. We discussed the [need for a self-hosted social network for your business][2] and also explored the top [5 open-source social network alternatives][3] for any organization. In this blog post, we have selected [HumHub][4] with which you can establish an internal/external **social media site** for your team/organization. Currently, business and educational organizations are flexible enough to conduct remote collaboration sessions. So, they opt for a space that is shared where they can communicate with anyone without wasting time and resources. In addition, communication and collaboration can be established without taking considering time and space. 

Therefore, we are going to review [HumHub][4], and for this purpose, we will be navigating the [online][5] version of this **open-source social network platform.** Its online running instance provides all the features and user interfaces where users can have a comprehensive experience. So, let’s start this tutorial and find out how [HumHub][4] can fulfill our business requirements. 

The following points will be covered in this article:

  * **[Why should you opt for HumHub?][6]**
  * **[Getting started with HumHub][7]**
  * **[Social tools at HumHub – Open-Source Social Media Platform][8]**
  * **[HumHub marketplace][9]** 

## Why should you opt for HumHub? {#Why-should-you-opt-for-HumHub}

Well, there are many open-source options available but HumHub is the one that stands out due to its rich usage and features stack. This self-hosted social network is easy to set up on local or cloud servers. It requires simple requirements to install this open sources software such as Apache Webserver 2.4, Nginx with PHP-fpm, and PHP. As far as the documentation is concerned, it offers comprehensive documentation regarding development, deployment, and usage.

This **open-source social network platform** is written in PHP hence, there is a huge developers community. The most interesting thing about HumHub is that you can customize this **open-source software** as per your needs.

## Getting started with HumHub {#Getting-started-with-HumHub}

The free version of HumHub offers 5 users and 500MB of storage. However, you may start creating your own instance by following this [link][5]. You will be asked to submit some information such as your email address and more as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-8.48.11-PM-1-1024x584.png" alt="Getting started with HumHub">}}  

After inserting the network name, the wizard will be completed. Now, you may add the required information for the admin account where you can manage the network as an admin. It is shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-9.04.11-PM-1024x929.png" alt="social media site">}}  

## Social tools at HumHub – Open-Source Social Media Platform {#Social-tools-at-HumHub---Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform}

In this section, we will go through some exciting features offered by [HumHub][4]. This could be a prolific social network alternative if you are using some other social networking platforms for your organization. 

Once you have set up the network, an intuitive dashboard will appear as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-10.36.25-PM-1024x581.png" alt="self hosted social network">}}  

So, as you can see there is a drop-down menu on the top right corner of the screen where you can find the user settings and administration module. In addition, cloud hosting is also available where you can customize your HumHub instance and can map your own domain name to it. On the top navbar, you create public/private spaces and define the method to invite people into your network. You can define the joining policy such as “only by invite”, “invite and request”, and “everyone can enter”.

Moreover, the dashboard of this **open-source social media platform** is highly logical and user-friendly. It shows you the activity log panel on the right side of the user interface. Above all, the center space is where you post the stuff, and people like or comment on the posts. In fact, in the comment section, you can upload media files too. Another cool option is that you can invite people in the network to participate in the discussions. The UI contains rich filter options and a global search feature with which you can search various data entities. Moreover, you can customize the dashboard element. 

## HumHub marketplace {#HumHub-marketplace}

The marketplace of this self-hosted social network is quite rich as you can find modules & themes. Some of them are free of cost and some of them are paid. Further, you may find modules belonging to various categories such as collaboration, administration, integrations, communication, and more. So, you may visit this [link][10] to find out more about the marketplace of HumHub.

The user interface provides details of all the plugins available as you may see in the image below. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-14-at-7.33.06-PM-1024x585.png" alt="social network alternative">}}  

Likewise, you may explore [HumHub][4] further to know the other features. 

## Conclusion

This is the end of this blog post. In this guide, we have gone through the running instance of an **open-source social media platform**. We also have explored its dashboard and other modules. In addition, this **open-source social network platform** is highly extensible and offers integrations with third-party applications. There are other relevant articles enlisted in the “See Also” section that may help you in finding the best social network alternative for your organization.

Finally, [containerize.com][11] is writing blog posts on further open-source products and topics. Therefore, please stay in touch with [][12][Social Network Platforms][1] category for regular updates. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][13], [LinkedIn][14], and [Twitter][15].

## Ask a question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][16].

## FAQs

**Is there an open-source social media platform?**

[HumHub][4] is an enterprise-level social media platform that may provide you the best public/private social network for your business/educational organization.

**What is an open social network?**

Follow this [link][6] to know about a self-hosted social network. 

## See Also 

  * [Top 5 Open-Source Social Networking Software in 2022][3]
  * [Why Your Business Needs A Self Hosted Social Network][17]
  * [Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][18]

 [1]: https://products.containerize.com/social-network-platforms/
 [2]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/10/07/why-your-business-needs-a-self-hosted-social-network/
 [3]: https://blog.containerize.com/2022/01/12/top-5-open-source-social-networking-software-in-2022/
 [4]: https://products.containerize.com/social-network-platforms/humhub/
 [5]: https://saas.humhub.com/en/create
 [6]: #Why-should-you-opt-for-HumHub
 [7]: #Getting-started-with-HumHub
 [8]: #Social-tools-at-HumHub---Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform
 [9]: #HumHub-marketplace
 [10]: https://marketplace.humhub.com/
 [11]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/marketing-automation/
 [13]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [14]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [15]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [16]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [17]: //blog.containerize.com/2021/10/07/why-your-business-needs-a-self-hosted-social-network/
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-14-how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/index.md, after:

---
title: How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub
seoTitle: How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub
description: Follow this guide to learn how to get started with an open-source social media platform. It offers a rich dashboard along with many enterprise-level features.
date: Sat, 14 Jan 2023 15:47:05 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: "Establish a public/private social network within your organization by using an open-source social network platform. Let's tour HumHub to see what it offers."
url: /social-network-platforms/how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/
aliases: 
    -  /2023/01/14/how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/
categories: ['Social Network Platforms']

---
## Establish a public/private social network within your organization by using an open-source social network platform. Let’s tour HumHub to see what it offers.

{{< figure align=center src="images/How-to-Start-With-Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform-HumHub.png" alt="Open-Source Social Media Platform">}}  

## Overview

In the recent past, we published some interesting content on [open-source social media platforms][1]. We discussed the [need for a self-hosted social network for your business][2] and also explored the top [5 open-source social network alternatives][3] for any organization. In this blog post, we have selected [HumHub][4] with which you can establish an internal/external **social media site** for your team/organization. Currently, business and educational organizations are flexible enough to conduct remote collaboration sessions. So, they opt for a space that is shared where they can communicate with anyone without wasting time and resources. In addition, communication and collaboration can be established without taking considering time and space. 

Therefore, we are going to review [HumHub][4], and for this purpose, we will be navigating the [online][5] version of this **open-source social network platform.** Its online running instance provides all the features and user interfaces where users can have a comprehensive experience. So, let’s start this tutorial and find out how [HumHub][4] can fulfill our business requirements. 

The following points will be covered in this article:

  * **[Why should you opt for HumHub?][6]**
  * **[Getting started with HumHub][7]**
  * **[Social tools at HumHub – Open-Source Social Media Platform][8]**
  * **[HumHub marketplace][9]** 

## Why should you opt for HumHub? {#Why-should-you-opt-for-HumHub}

Well, there are many open-source options available but HumHub is the one that stands out due to its rich usage and features stack. This self-hosted social network is easy to set up on local or cloud servers. It requires simple requirements to install this open sources software such as Apache Webserver 2.4, Nginx with PHP-fpm, and PHP. As far as the documentation is concerned, it offers comprehensive documentation regarding development, deployment, and usage.

This **open-source social network platform** is written in PHP hence, there is a huge developers community. The most interesting thing about HumHub is that you can customize this **open-source software** as per your needs.

## Getting started with HumHub {#Getting-started-with-HumHub}

The free version of HumHub offers 5 users and 500MB of storage. However, you may start creating your own instance by following this [link][5]. You will be asked to submit some information such as your email address and more as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-8.48.11-PM-1-1024x584.png" alt="Getting started with HumHub">}}  

After inserting the network name, the wizard will be completed. Now, you may add the required information for the admin account where you can manage the network as an admin. It is shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-9.04.11-PM-1024x929.png" alt="social media site">}}  

## Social tools at HumHub – Open-Source Social Media Platform {#Social-tools-at-HumHub---Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform}

In this section, we will go through some exciting features offered by [HumHub][4]. This could be a prolific social network alternative if you are using some other social networking platforms for your organization. 

Once you have set up the network, an intuitive dashboard will appear as shown in the image below:

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-13-at-10.36.25-PM-1024x581.png" alt="self hosted social network">}}  

So, as you can see there is a drop-down menu on the top right corner of the screen where you can find the user settings and administration module. In addition, cloud hosting is also available where you can customize your HumHub instance and can map your own domain name to it. On the top navbar, you create public/private spaces and define the method to invite people into your network. You can define the joining policy such as “only by invite”, “invite and request”, and “everyone can enter”.

Moreover, the dashboard of this **open-source social media platform** is highly logical and user-friendly. It shows you the activity log panel on the right side of the user interface. Above all, the center space is where you post the stuff, and people like or comment on the posts. In fact, in the comment section, you can upload media files too. Another cool option is that you can invite people in the network to participate in the discussions. The UI contains rich filter options and a global search feature with which you can search various data entities. Moreover, you can customize the dashboard element. 

## HumHub marketplace {#HumHub-marketplace}

The marketplace of this self-hosted social network is quite rich as you can find modules & themes. Some of them are free of cost and some of them are paid. Further, you may find modules belonging to various categories such as collaboration, administration, integrations, communication, and more. So, you may visit this [link][10] to find out more about the marketplace of HumHub.

The user interface provides details of all the plugins available as you may see in the image below. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/Screenshot-2023-01-14-at-7.33.06-PM-1024x585.png" alt="social network alternative">}}  

Likewise, you may explore [HumHub][4] further to know the other features. 

## Conclusion

This is the end of this blog post. In this guide, we have gone through the running instance of an **open-source social media platform**. We also have explored its dashboard and other modules. In addition, this **open-source social network platform** is highly extensible and offers integrations with third-party applications. There are other relevant articles enlisted in the “See Also” section that may help you in finding the best social network alternative for your organization.

Finally, [containerize.com][11] is writing blog posts on further open-source products and topics. Therefore, please stay in touch with [][12][Social Network Platforms][1] category for regular updates. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][13], [LinkedIn][14], and [Twitter][15].

## Ask a question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][16].

## FAQs

**Is there an open-source social media platform?**

[HumHub][4] is an enterprise-level social media platform that may provide you the best public/private social network for your business/educational organization.

**What is an open social network?**

Follow this [link][6] to know about a self-hosted social network. 

## See Also 

  * [Top 5 Open-Source Social Networking Software in 2022][3]
  * [Why Your Business Needs A Self Hosted Social Network][17]
  * [Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][18]

 [1]: https://products.containerize.com/social-network-platforms/
 [2]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/10/07/why-your-business-needs-a-self-hosted-social-network/
 [3]: https://blog.containerize.com/2022/01/12/top-5-open-source-social-networking-software-in-2022/
 [4]: https://products.containerize.com/social-network-platforms/humhub/
 [5]: https://saas.humhub.com/en/create
 [6]: #Why-should-you-opt-for-HumHub
 [7]: #Getting-started-with-HumHub
 [8]: #Social-tools-at-HumHub---Open-Source-Social-Media-Platform
 [9]: #HumHub-marketplace
 [10]: https://marketplace.humhub.com/
 [11]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/marketing-automation/
 [13]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [14]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [15]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [16]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [17]: //blog.containerize.com/2021/10/07/why-your-business-needs-a-self-hosted-social-network/
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/
