content/Containerize.Blog/2021-04-30-important-digital-marketing-practices-for-startups-in-2021/index.md, before:

---
title: Important Digital Marketing Practices For Startups In 2021
seoTitle: Important Digital Marketing Practices For Startups In 2021
description: Here are a few digital marketing practices and best digital marketing strategies for startups and business trends we will see in 2021.
date: Fri, 30 Apr 2021 18:25:32 +0000
author: yasir saeed
summary: New and innovative brands are launching every day because of the rapidly growing competition. This post covers best marketing practices for business in 2021.
url: /marketing-automation/important-digital-marketing-practices-for-startups-in-2021/
categories: ['Marketing Automation']

---
## New and innovative brands are launching every day because of the rapidly growing competition. This post covers best marketing practices for business in 2021.

{{< figure align=center src="images/Digital-Marketing-Best-Practices-For-Startups-In-2021.png" alt="Important Digital Marketing Practices and Startup Strategies For 2021">}}  

## **Overview**

Digital marketing has changed at a rapid pace and some marketering experts even believe that marketing has changed more to boost the growth of your business. Digital marketing is highly accessible to businesses of all shapes, sizes and budget. That’s why digital marketing practices has become such a savior for many startups.

Most startup businesses these days have adopted digital marketing best practices. But not all the strategies that digital marketers have are equally effective but some digital marketing strategies play important to boost startups. which digital marketing best strategy you should adopt to boost the growth of your business?. It depends upon your niche, target audience, and many other factors for your startup.

In today’s blog post article, I’m going to cover some of the best digital marketing strategies for startups and digital marketing practices in 2021. After reading this post, you will have a clear picture of profitable digital marketing strategy for the growth of your business.

  * Advantages of Digital Marketing
  * Finding The Right Channels
  * Focus On Search Engine Optimization
  * Optimize For Mobile Devices
  * Conclusion

## 1. **Advantages of Digital Marketing:** {#ce62}

Digital marketing best practices allow startups to reach audiences at a much lower cost than traditional marketing platform. Here are some of the advantages of digital marketing best practices and strategies for startups:

• Exponential reach  
• Precise targeting  
• The ability to establish brand awareness across channels  
• Greater visibility  
• Better tracking (everything is trackable)  
• The ability to generate sales/leads at a lower cost  
• Access to real-time data

Many new startups and businesses are adopting best digital marketing best practices but it’s important to develop your own strategy if you want the best results. Drawing on my experience as the founder of a digital marketing startup or business, I’ve listed most popular marketing strategies for promoting your company across digital channels.

## 2. **Finding The Right Channels:** {#ce62}

There are many facets of digital marketing agency for startups, and finding the right startup growth strategy is crucial for meeting and to grow your business goals. Your top marketing strategy and best digital marketing campaign can include the following channels:

• Search engine optimization (SEO)  
• Pay-per-click (PPC)  
• Social media marketing  
• Email marketing  
• Content marketing  
• Affiliate marketing  
• Influencer marketing

The selection of channels and best trends depends upon your target audience, your location and your business goals.

One of the best ways to start is to look at your business competitors. There are some good tools like Google Keyword Planner, SEMrush, SpyFu, SimilarWeb and Ahrefs that can help you see what’s working for your competitors using best ecommerce marketing strategies. Start with test campaigns and social media marketing to determine the engagement you get for each targeted channel. With email marketing, messaging is also play an important role element in marketing to grow businesses. You can [increase website search traffic][1] by following these [top 7 SEO blogs][1].

## 3. **Focus on Search Engine Optimization:** {#ce62}

Whether you are a service based business or a product based company, your customers journey often starts from search engine results. Your potential customers are probably looking for similar services or products on search engines; therefore, it’s critical to have top rankings in search results. If your website is optimized for search volume results then you can get relevant traffic and right people with the right intent to your business organically.

You can boost your business search engine rankings with the following best marketing practices, SEO tips and techniques:

• **Search for quality keywords:** There are many free and paid softwares that can help you find the best high volume keywords for your business and startups. Google Keyword Planner is one the best example as an important marketing strategy.  
• **Optimize your meta tags details:** Optimized and well written meta tags like meta title and meta description will not only help you build keyword relevancy but they also can help you improve your click-through rate in search engine results.  
• **Optimize your content quality:** Include targeted primary and secondary keywords in your content. Add more quality content pages on your website and use longtail keywords as such keywords are easier to rank sites for then more competitive startups.  
• **Build site backlinks:** Back links are also an important factor in improving site rankings. Getting quality back-links links from relevant and high authority sites can help to boost your search engine rankings. See where your competitors have back-links using tools like Ahrefs and Moz and try getting similar back links.

## 4. **Optimize For Mobile Devices:** {#ce62}

Mobile devices usage is increasing day by day as online marketing best practices. The number of smartphones users in the United States is predicted to exceed 290 million by 2024 according to statistics. Startup businesses are getting a lot of organic traffic from mobile devices and consumers journeys often start there. As a result, Google has started using the mobile version of websites for indexing and site rankings.

Today many people use their smartphones as their sole computer and mobile traffic is increasing year over year. If your site is not mobile optimized and mobile-friendly then Google will not rank your website highly. If your users have a bad mobile experience they are most likely not returning your website and it is important to note that mobile optimization looks different depending on the type of website you operating. You might have elements on your site that won’t convert well to mobile devices so always pick a 100 percent responsive web design.

## **Conclusion**: {#ce62}

Getting successful in digital marketing is very difficult due to huge competition in digital markets and marketing. Digital marketing work for your business will require a lot of hard work, time and money to build your startup business. But if you follow above most effective marketing strategies and practices then you will be able to stand out and generate real results from digital marketing platforms. There are so many different digital channels out there so test them out and see what works best to grow your startup business. In our upcoming tutorials, we’ll discuss about more interesting topics related to open source cloud storage platforms.

_Your can join us on [Twitter][2], [LinkedIn][3] and our [Facebook][4] page. What best practices of digital marketing do you prefer?. If you have any questions, please_ [get in touch][5].

## Explore

You may find the more related following blog articles 

  * [Increase Website Search Traffic by Following Top 7 SEO Blogs in 2021][1]
  * [5 Digital Marketing Tools You Shouldn’t Live Without in 2021][6]
  * [Software development trends to look out for in 2021][7]
  * [Top 5 Open Source Marketplace Software in 2021][8]
  * [Best Free and Open Source Marketplace Software][9]

 [1]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/01/17/increase-website-search-traffic-by-following-top-7-seo-blogs/
 [2]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [3]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [4]: http://facebook.com/containerize
 [5]: mailto:yasir.saeed@aspose.com
 [6]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/01/03/5-digital-marketing-tools-you-shouldn%e2%80%99t-live-without-in-2021/
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/07/top-5-open-source-marketplace-software-in-2021/
 [8]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/10/09/integrate-mautic-with-joomla-for-marketing-automation/
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/marketplace/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-04-30-important-digital-marketing-practices-for-startups-in-2021/index.md, after:

---
title: Important Digital Marketing Practices For Startups In 2021
seoTitle: Important Digital Marketing Practices For Startups In 2021
description: Here are a few digital marketing practices and best digital marketing strategies for startups and business trends we will see in 2021.
date: Fri, 30 Apr 2021 18:25:32 +0000
author: yasir saeed
summary: New and innovative brands are launching every day because of the rapidly growing competition. This post covers best marketing practices for business in 2021.
url: /marketing-automation/important-digital-marketing-practices-for-startups-in-2021/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/04/30/important-digital-marketing-practices-for-startups-in-2021/
categories: ['Marketing Automation']

---
## New and innovative brands are launching every day because of the rapidly growing competition. This post covers best marketing practices for business in 2021.

{{< figure align=center src="images/Digital-Marketing-Best-Practices-For-Startups-In-2021.png" alt="Important Digital Marketing Practices and Startup Strategies For 2021">}}  

## **Overview**

Digital marketing has changed at a rapid pace and some marketering experts even believe that marketing has changed more to boost the growth of your business. Digital marketing is highly accessible to businesses of all shapes, sizes and budget. That’s why digital marketing practices has become such a savior for many startups.

Most startup businesses these days have adopted digital marketing best practices. But not all the strategies that digital marketers have are equally effective but some digital marketing strategies play important to boost startups. which digital marketing best strategy you should adopt to boost the growth of your business?. It depends upon your niche, target audience, and many other factors for your startup.

In today’s blog post article, I’m going to cover some of the best digital marketing strategies for startups and digital marketing practices in 2021. After reading this post, you will have a clear picture of profitable digital marketing strategy for the growth of your business.

  * Advantages of Digital Marketing
  * Finding The Right Channels
  * Focus On Search Engine Optimization
  * Optimize For Mobile Devices
  * Conclusion

## 1. **Advantages of Digital Marketing:** {#ce62}

Digital marketing best practices allow startups to reach audiences at a much lower cost than traditional marketing platform. Here are some of the advantages of digital marketing best practices and strategies for startups:

• Exponential reach  
• Precise targeting  
• The ability to establish brand awareness across channels  
• Greater visibility  
• Better tracking (everything is trackable)  
• The ability to generate sales/leads at a lower cost  
• Access to real-time data

Many new startups and businesses are adopting best digital marketing best practices but it’s important to develop your own strategy if you want the best results. Drawing on my experience as the founder of a digital marketing startup or business, I’ve listed most popular marketing strategies for promoting your company across digital channels.

## 2. **Finding The Right Channels:** {#ce62}

There are many facets of digital marketing agency for startups, and finding the right startup growth strategy is crucial for meeting and to grow your business goals. Your top marketing strategy and best digital marketing campaign can include the following channels:

• Search engine optimization (SEO)  
• Pay-per-click (PPC)  
• Social media marketing  
• Email marketing  
• Content marketing  
• Affiliate marketing  
• Influencer marketing

The selection of channels and best trends depends upon your target audience, your location and your business goals.

One of the best ways to start is to look at your business competitors. There are some good tools like Google Keyword Planner, SEMrush, SpyFu, SimilarWeb and Ahrefs that can help you see what’s working for your competitors using best ecommerce marketing strategies. Start with test campaigns and social media marketing to determine the engagement you get for each targeted channel. With email marketing, messaging is also play an important role element in marketing to grow businesses. You can [increase website search traffic][1] by following these [top 7 SEO blogs][1].

## 3. **Focus on Search Engine Optimization:** {#ce62}

Whether you are a service based business or a product based company, your customers journey often starts from search engine results. Your potential customers are probably looking for similar services or products on search engines; therefore, it’s critical to have top rankings in search results. If your website is optimized for search volume results then you can get relevant traffic and right people with the right intent to your business organically.

You can boost your business search engine rankings with the following best marketing practices, SEO tips and techniques:

• **Search for quality keywords:** There are many free and paid softwares that can help you find the best high volume keywords for your business and startups. Google Keyword Planner is one the best example as an important marketing strategy.  
• **Optimize your meta tags details:** Optimized and well written meta tags like meta title and meta description will not only help you build keyword relevancy but they also can help you improve your click-through rate in search engine results.  
• **Optimize your content quality:** Include targeted primary and secondary keywords in your content. Add more quality content pages on your website and use longtail keywords as such keywords are easier to rank sites for then more competitive startups.  
• **Build site backlinks:** Back links are also an important factor in improving site rankings. Getting quality back-links links from relevant and high authority sites can help to boost your search engine rankings. See where your competitors have back-links using tools like Ahrefs and Moz and try getting similar back links.

## 4. **Optimize For Mobile Devices:** {#ce62}

Mobile devices usage is increasing day by day as online marketing best practices. The number of smartphones users in the United States is predicted to exceed 290 million by 2024 according to statistics. Startup businesses are getting a lot of organic traffic from mobile devices and consumers journeys often start there. As a result, Google has started using the mobile version of websites for indexing and site rankings.

Today many people use their smartphones as their sole computer and mobile traffic is increasing year over year. If your site is not mobile optimized and mobile-friendly then Google will not rank your website highly. If your users have a bad mobile experience they are most likely not returning your website and it is important to note that mobile optimization looks different depending on the type of website you operating. You might have elements on your site that won’t convert well to mobile devices so always pick a 100 percent responsive web design.

## **Conclusion**: {#ce62}

Getting successful in digital marketing is very difficult due to huge competition in digital markets and marketing. Digital marketing work for your business will require a lot of hard work, time and money to build your startup business. But if you follow above most effective marketing strategies and practices then you will be able to stand out and generate real results from digital marketing platforms. There are so many different digital channels out there so test them out and see what works best to grow your startup business. In our upcoming tutorials, we’ll discuss about more interesting topics related to open source cloud storage platforms.

_Your can join us on [Twitter][2], [LinkedIn][3] and our [Facebook][4] page. What best practices of digital marketing do you prefer?. If you have any questions, please_ [get in touch][5].

## Explore

You may find the more related following blog articles 

  * [Increase Website Search Traffic by Following Top 7 SEO Blogs in 2021][1]
  * [5 Digital Marketing Tools You Shouldn’t Live Without in 2021][6]
  * [Software development trends to look out for in 2021][7]
  * [Top 5 Open Source Marketplace Software in 2021][8]
  * [Best Free and Open Source Marketplace Software][9]

 [1]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/01/17/increase-website-search-traffic-by-following-top-7-seo-blogs/
 [2]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [3]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [4]: http://facebook.com/containerize
 [5]: mailto:yasir.saeed@aspose.com
 [6]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/01/03/5-digital-marketing-tools-you-shouldn%e2%80%99t-live-without-in-2021/
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/07/top-5-open-source-marketplace-software-in-2021/
 [8]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/10/09/integrate-mautic-with-joomla-for-marketing-automation/
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/marketplace/
