content/Containerize.Blog/2021-01-29-top-5-open-source-single-sign-on-software-in-the-year-2021/index.md, before:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Single Sign-On Software In the Year 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Single Sign-On Software In the Year 2021
description: Check the list of enterprise-level free Single Sign-On Software. These open source SSO solutions include IdentityServer, KeyCloak. CAS, Authelia, and WSO2.
date: Fri, 29 Jan 2021 05:46:42 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: Single sign-on software offers a central login for all user accounts and IT systems. It modernizes the user experience by offering security and transparency.
url: /single-sign-on/top-5-open-source-single-sign-on-software-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Single Sign-On']

---
## Single sign-on software offers a central login for all user accounts and IT systems. It modernizes the user experience by offering security and transparency.

{{< figure align=center src="images/sso.png" alt="Single Sign-On Software">}}  

## Overview

Users in large organizations access digital resources seamlessly using **Single Sign-On(SSO)** software. Identity and access management using **SSO** software has become an integral part of routine business operations. In this blog post, we will go through some of the following top 5 popular open source single sign-on software. 

  * **[IdentityServer][1]**
  * **[KeyCloak][2]**
  * **[CAS][3]**
  * **[Authelia][4]**
  * **[WSO2][5]**
  * **[Conclusion][6]**

## IdentityServer {#IdentityServer}

[**IdentityServer**][7] is an open source free single sign-on software. It is a cross-platform framework based on OpenID Connect and OAuth 2. Further, this open source software provides central authentication and authorization capabilities for multiple applications. It supports federated identities, multiple flows, and API authorization. Moreover, this **self hosting software** enables users to login with a single set of usernames/passwords across many apps. However, **IdentityServer** is written in C# and all of its source code is available on [Github][8] along with documentation regarding deployment and development.

Following are the prominent features:

  * Claim-based Provider
  * Cross-Platform
  * UI Customization
  * Access Control for API
  * Single Sign-on /Sign-out

[**Learn more about IdentityServer**][9]

## KeyCloak {#KeyCloak}

[**KeyCloak**][10] is another free software that is based on OpenID Connect, OAuth2.0, and SAML2.0. It provides **SSO** capabilities across web applications and web services. Above all, this open source software provides integrations with **LDAP** and Active Directory. There is a logical user interface where users can manage roles, permissions, and sessions. Moreover, this **free solution** provides client libraries for many languages such as Java, JavaScript, and C#. **KeyCloak** is mainly written in Java with little input from other languages such as JavaScript and HTML. Its source code is available on [Github][11].

KeyCloak has the following key features:

  * Provides Client Adapters
  * User-Friendly UI
  * Authentication as Service
  * Integration With LDAP
  * Integration With Active Directory 

[**Learn more about KeyCloak**][12]

## CAS {#CAS}

[**CAS**][13] is open source SSO software with delegated authentication. Moreover, it is multilingual and comes up with central authorization services using the ticket-based protocol. This free software is built on client-server architecture. **Central Authentication Service(CAS)** supports many protocols such as OpenID, OAuth, OpenID Connect, REST, WsFederation, and SAML. Above all, there is a comprehensive system for integration with third-party apps. This **single sign-on** software is written in Java. However, its source code is available on [Github][14] with all documentation regarding development and deployment. 

CAS offers the following important features:

  * Multilingual
  * Multifactor authentication 
  * Many Authorization Mechanisms (e.g. ABAC, Time/Date, REST )
  * UI To Manage Monitoring And Stats
  * Password Management

[**Learn more about CAS**][15]

## Authelia {#Authelia}

[**Authelia**][16] is highly rich-featured and scalable SSO software. It offers great security and provides single sign-on and login regulation abilities. This **open source software** also provides support for LDAP and Active Directory. In addition, there is an intuitive user interface that lets users navigate easily. Further, it provides two-factor authentication based on **Google Authenticator** OTP. This **free software** works with a reverse proxy such as Nginx. However, Authelia is written in Go language and all its all source code is available on [Github][17].

Authelia comes up with the following key features:

  * 2F Authentication with Yubikey
  * Identity verification
  * Block Brute Force Attacks
  * Works With Reverse Proxies
  * Push Notifications With DUO

**[Learn more about Authelia][18]**

## WSO2 {#WSO2}

[**WSO2**][19] is another widely used open source identity and access management system. It supports almost all popular identity standards to provide authentication. It has exposed API end pints for the integration with other applications. **WSO2** comes up with a **user-friendly interface** that is highly customizable. Moreover, this open source software also offers two-factor authentication. However, it is mainly written in Java and its all source code is available on [Github][20] with documentation regarding development and deployment.

WSO2 offers the following key points:

  * High Performance
  * Cloud Integrations
  * Flexible
  * Inbound/Outbound Provisioning
  * Identity Provider

**[Learn more about WSO2][21]**

## Conclusion {#Conclusion}

Almost all of the open source **SSO software** mentioned in this blog post are widely used on enterprise level. If you are in process of choosing the best **single sign on software** for business then we recommend you to go through this article deeply. 

Finally, [**containerize.com**][22] is writing articles on further open source products. Therefore, please stay in touch with the [Single Sign-on][23] category for regular updates.

## Explore

  * **[IdentityServer][24]**
  * **[KeyCloak][25]**
  * **[CAS][26]**
  * [**Authelia**][27]
  * **[WSO2][28]**
  * **[OpenIdentityPlatform][29]**
  * **[FreeIPA][30]**
  * **[How To Leverage SSO System For Better Business Growth][31]**
  * **[Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][32]**

 [1]: #IdentityServer
 [2]: #KeyCloak
 [3]: #CAS
 [4]: #Authelia
 [5]: #WSO2
 [6]: #Conclusion
 [7]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/identity-server
 [8]: https://github.com/IdentityServer
 [9]: https://identityserver.io/
 [10]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/keycloak
 [11]: https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak
 [12]: https://www.keycloak.org/
 [13]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/cas
 [14]: https://github.com/apereo/cas
 [15]: https://apereo.github.io/cas/6.3.x/index.html
 [16]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/authelia
 [17]: https://github.com/authelia/authelia
 [18]: https://www.authelia.com/
 [19]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/wso2
 [20]: https://github.com/wso2/product-is
 [21]: http://wso2.github.io/
 [22]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [23]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/
 [24]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/identity-server/
 [25]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/keycloak/
 [26]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/cas/
 [27]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/authelia/
 [28]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/wso2/
 [29]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/openidentityplatform/
 [30]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/freeipa/
 [31]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/02/06/how-to-leverage-sso-solution-for-better-business-growth/
 [32]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-01-29-top-5-open-source-single-sign-on-software-in-the-year-2021/index.md, after:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Single Sign-On Software In the Year 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Single Sign-On Software In the Year 2021
description: Check the list of enterprise-level free Single Sign-On Software. These open source SSO solutions include IdentityServer, KeyCloak. CAS, Authelia, and WSO2.
date: Fri, 29 Jan 2021 05:46:42 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: Single sign-on software offers a central login for all user accounts and IT systems. It modernizes the user experience by offering security and transparency.
url: /single-sign-on/top-5-open-source-single-sign-on-software-in-the-year-2021/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/01/29/top-5-open-source-single-sign-on-software-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Single Sign-On']

---
## Single sign-on software offers a central login for all user accounts and IT systems. It modernizes the user experience by offering security and transparency.

{{< figure align=center src="images/sso.png" alt="Single Sign-On Software">}}  

## Overview

Users in large organizations access digital resources seamlessly using **Single Sign-On(SSO)** software. Identity and access management using **SSO** software has become an integral part of routine business operations. In this blog post, we will go through some of the following top 5 popular open source single sign-on software. 

  * **[IdentityServer][1]**
  * **[KeyCloak][2]**
  * **[CAS][3]**
  * **[Authelia][4]**
  * **[WSO2][5]**
  * **[Conclusion][6]**

## IdentityServer {#IdentityServer}

[**IdentityServer**][7] is an open source free single sign-on software. It is a cross-platform framework based on OpenID Connect and OAuth 2. Further, this open source software provides central authentication and authorization capabilities for multiple applications. It supports federated identities, multiple flows, and API authorization. Moreover, this **self hosting software** enables users to login with a single set of usernames/passwords across many apps. However, **IdentityServer** is written in C# and all of its source code is available on [Github][8] along with documentation regarding deployment and development.

Following are the prominent features:

  * Claim-based Provider
  * Cross-Platform
  * UI Customization
  * Access Control for API
  * Single Sign-on /Sign-out

[**Learn more about IdentityServer**][9]

## KeyCloak {#KeyCloak}

[**KeyCloak**][10] is another free software that is based on OpenID Connect, OAuth2.0, and SAML2.0. It provides **SSO** capabilities across web applications and web services. Above all, this open source software provides integrations with **LDAP** and Active Directory. There is a logical user interface where users can manage roles, permissions, and sessions. Moreover, this **free solution** provides client libraries for many languages such as Java, JavaScript, and C#. **KeyCloak** is mainly written in Java with little input from other languages such as JavaScript and HTML. Its source code is available on [Github][11].

KeyCloak has the following key features:

  * Provides Client Adapters
  * User-Friendly UI
  * Authentication as Service
  * Integration With LDAP
  * Integration With Active Directory 

[**Learn more about KeyCloak**][12]

## CAS {#CAS}

[**CAS**][13] is open source SSO software with delegated authentication. Moreover, it is multilingual and comes up with central authorization services using the ticket-based protocol. This free software is built on client-server architecture. **Central Authentication Service(CAS)** supports many protocols such as OpenID, OAuth, OpenID Connect, REST, WsFederation, and SAML. Above all, there is a comprehensive system for integration with third-party apps. This **single sign-on** software is written in Java. However, its source code is available on [Github][14] with all documentation regarding development and deployment. 

CAS offers the following important features:

  * Multilingual
  * Multifactor authentication 
  * Many Authorization Mechanisms (e.g. ABAC, Time/Date, REST )
  * UI To Manage Monitoring And Stats
  * Password Management

[**Learn more about CAS**][15]

## Authelia {#Authelia}

[**Authelia**][16] is highly rich-featured and scalable SSO software. It offers great security and provides single sign-on and login regulation abilities. This **open source software** also provides support for LDAP and Active Directory. In addition, there is an intuitive user interface that lets users navigate easily. Further, it provides two-factor authentication based on **Google Authenticator** OTP. This **free software** works with a reverse proxy such as Nginx. However, Authelia is written in Go language and all its all source code is available on [Github][17].

Authelia comes up with the following key features:

  * 2F Authentication with Yubikey
  * Identity verification
  * Block Brute Force Attacks
  * Works With Reverse Proxies
  * Push Notifications With DUO

**[Learn more about Authelia][18]**

## WSO2 {#WSO2}

[**WSO2**][19] is another widely used open source identity and access management system. It supports almost all popular identity standards to provide authentication. It has exposed API end pints for the integration with other applications. **WSO2** comes up with a **user-friendly interface** that is highly customizable. Moreover, this open source software also offers two-factor authentication. However, it is mainly written in Java and its all source code is available on [Github][20] with documentation regarding development and deployment.

WSO2 offers the following key points:

  * High Performance
  * Cloud Integrations
  * Flexible
  * Inbound/Outbound Provisioning
  * Identity Provider

**[Learn more about WSO2][21]**

## Conclusion {#Conclusion}

Almost all of the open source **SSO software** mentioned in this blog post are widely used on enterprise level. If you are in process of choosing the best **single sign on software** for business then we recommend you to go through this article deeply. 

Finally, [**containerize.com**][22] is writing articles on further open source products. Therefore, please stay in touch with the [Single Sign-on][23] category for regular updates.

## Explore

  * **[IdentityServer][24]**
  * **[KeyCloak][25]**
  * **[CAS][26]**
  * [**Authelia**][27]
  * **[WSO2][28]**
  * **[OpenIdentityPlatform][29]**
  * **[FreeIPA][30]**
  * **[How To Leverage SSO System For Better Business Growth][31]**
  * **[Automate Business Operations Using Free and Open Source Software][32]**

 [1]: #IdentityServer
 [2]: #KeyCloak
 [3]: #CAS
 [4]: #Authelia
 [5]: #WSO2
 [6]: #Conclusion
 [7]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/identity-server
 [8]: https://github.com/IdentityServer
 [9]: https://identityserver.io/
 [10]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/keycloak
 [11]: https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak
 [12]: https://www.keycloak.org/
 [13]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/cas
 [14]: https://github.com/apereo/cas
 [15]: https://apereo.github.io/cas/6.3.x/index.html
 [16]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/authelia
 [17]: https://github.com/authelia/authelia
 [18]: https://www.authelia.com/
 [19]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/wso2
 [20]: https://github.com/wso2/product-is
 [21]: http://wso2.github.io/
 [22]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [23]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/
 [24]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/identity-server/
 [25]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/keycloak/
 [26]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/cas/
 [27]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/authelia/
 [28]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/wso2/
 [29]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/openidentityplatform/
 [30]: https://products.containerize.com/single-sign-on/freeipa/
 [31]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/02/06/how-to-leverage-sso-solution-for-better-business-growth/
 [32]: https://blog.containerize.com/2020/08/27/automate-business-operations-using-open-source-software/
