content/Containerize.Blog/2021-06-25-how-to-build-a-node-js-application-with-docker-on-ubuntu/index.md, before:

---
title: How To Build a Node.js Application with Docker on Ubuntu
seoTitle: How To Build a Node.js Application with Docker on Ubuntu
description: If you are interested in Node.js and want to use Docker. This tutorial will walk you through, how to build a Nodejs application with Docker.
date: Fri, 25 Jun 2021 17:08:00 +0000
author: Assad Mahmood
summary: This article will explain to you how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Docker allows to package and run applications as containers.
url: /software-development/how-to-build-a-node-js-application-with-docker-on-ubuntu/
categories: ['Software Development']

---
{{< figure align=center src="images/how-to-build-nodejs-application-with-docker.png" alt="how to build nodejs application with docker">}} 

## This article will explain to you how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Docker allows to package and run applications as containers.

Today we are starting a series of tutorials about software development tools. And this first article covers how to containerize a Node.js application using Docker. Docker helps developers to package and run applications as containers. Since the container is an isolated process and a lightweight alternative to virtual machines. This article explains how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Let’s get started!

  * [**What is Docker**][1]
  * **[Prerequisites][2]**
  * [**Setup Node.js Application**][3]
  * [**Write Dockerfile**][4]
  * [**Build Image and Run Docker Container**][5]
  * [**Conclusion**][6]

## What is Docker {#docker}

Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. It is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly.

Docker uses a client-server architecture. The Docker client talks to the Docker daemon, which does the heavy lifting of building, running, and distributing your Docker containers. The Docker client and daemon communicate using a REST API, over UNIX sockets or a network interface. Here is the diagram of docker architecture.

{{< figure align=center src="images/docker-architecture-1024x540.png" alt="docker architecture">}}  

## Prerequisites {#prereq}

  * Ubuntu Server
  * Docker Installed on the Server
  * Node.js npm installed

## Setup Node.js Application {#setup}

To create your image, you will first need to make your application files, which you can then copy to your container. These files will include your application’s static content, code, and dependencies.

First, create a directory for your project in your non-root user’s home directory. Then, execute below command in a new folder that you created.


```
npm init -y
npm i -s express
```


The above command will set up a Node.js application with express framework installed as a dependency. Let’s add the following code into **app.js** file.


```
const express = require(‘express’);
const app = express();
app.get(‘/’, function(req,res){
  res.send(“Hello World”);
});
const port = 3000;
app.listen(port, function () {
  console.log(‘Listening on port 3000!’)
})
```


Start the application with node app.js


```
node app.js
```


Navigate your browser to http://your\_server\_ip:3000. You will see the following landing page.

Now you have an application up and running. We can now move on to create the Dockerfile that will allow us to recreate and scale this application.

## Write Dockerfile {#dockerfile}

Using Dockerfile, you can specify what will be included in your application container when it is executed and the container environment.

First of all create Dockerfile with following command at the root of your project.


```
vi Dockerfile
```


Add the following **FROM** instruction to set the application’s base image:


```
FROM node:12-alpine
```


<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    <em>You can add .dockerignore file in order to remove files that not belongs to docker image.</em>
  </p>
</blockquote>

Let’s create the **node_modules** subdirectory in /home/node along with the app directory. This will ensure that they have the needed permissions, which will be important when we create local node modules in the container with npm install.


```
...
RUN mkdir -p /home/node/app/node_modules && chown -R node:node /home/node/app
```


Next, set the working directory of the application to /home/node/app:


```
...
WORKDIR /home/node/app
```


Next, copy the package.json and package-lock.json, assign the project file to a non-root user “node” and then run the npm install


```
...
COPY package*.json ./
USER node
RUN npm install
```


Copy your application code with the appropriate permissions to the application directory on the container


```
...
COPY --chown=node:node . .
```


EXPOSE command to expose port:


```
...
EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```


Final version of Dockerfile should look like this:


```
FROM node:12-alpine
RUN mkdir -p /home/node/app/node_modules && chown -R node:node /home/node/app
WORKDIR /home/node/app
COPY package*.json ./
USER node
RUN npm install
COPY --chown=node:node . .
EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```


## Build Image and Run Container {#build}

Run the following command to generate your Docker Image


```
docker build -t <<image_name>> .
```


This will generate a _docker image_ which you can check by using the docker images command. It is now possible to create a container with this image using the following command:


```
docker run — name <<container_name>> -p 3000:3000 -d <<image_name>>
```


This will start the container which you can verify by running the docker ps command. Now in your browser if you access http://localhost:3000 you’ll see your Node.js app running. However this time now its running from your Docker container.

## Conclusion {#conclusion}

Development with the Docker Container is is very simple and easy. Docker helps developers to package and run applications as containers. In this tutorial we learned how to build a node.js application using docker container on Ubuntu. In upcoming articles we’ll write about more uses of Docker and also we’ll discuss other tools.

## Explore

  * [How to Install Multiple PHP Versions with Nginx on Ubuntu][7]
  * [How to Setup and Configure Nginx as Reverse Proxy][8]

 [1]: #docker
 [2]: #prereq
 [3]: #setup
 [4]: #dockerfile
 [5]: #build
 [6]: #conclusion
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/21/how-to-install-multiple-php-versions-with-nginx-on-ubuntu/
 [8]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/07/how-to-setup-and-configure-nginx-as-reverse-proxy/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-06-25-how-to-build-a-node-js-application-with-docker-on-ubuntu/index.md, after:

---
title: How To Build a Node.js Application with Docker on Ubuntu
seoTitle: How To Build a Node.js Application with Docker on Ubuntu
description: If you are interested in Node.js and want to use Docker. This tutorial will walk you through, how to build a Nodejs application with Docker.
date: Fri, 25 Jun 2021 17:08:00 +0000
author: Assad Mahmood
summary: This article will explain to you how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Docker allows to package and run applications as containers.
url: /software-development/how-to-build-a-node-js-application-with-docker-on-ubuntu/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/06/25/how-to-build-a-node-js-application-with-docker-on-ubuntu/
categories: ['Software Development']

---
{{< figure align=center src="images/how-to-build-nodejs-application-with-docker.png" alt="how to build nodejs application with docker">}} 

## This article will explain to you how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Docker allows to package and run applications as containers.

Today we are starting a series of tutorials about software development tools. And this first article covers how to containerize a Node.js application using Docker. Docker helps developers to package and run applications as containers. Since the container is an isolated process and a lightweight alternative to virtual machines. This article explains how to build a nodejs application with Docker containerization. Let’s get started!

  * [**What is Docker**][1]
  * **[Prerequisites][2]**
  * [**Setup Node.js Application**][3]
  * [**Write Dockerfile**][4]
  * [**Build Image and Run Docker Container**][5]
  * [**Conclusion**][6]

## What is Docker {#docker}

Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. It is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly.

Docker uses a client-server architecture. The Docker client talks to the Docker daemon, which does the heavy lifting of building, running, and distributing your Docker containers. The Docker client and daemon communicate using a REST API, over UNIX sockets or a network interface. Here is the diagram of docker architecture.

{{< figure align=center src="images/docker-architecture-1024x540.png" alt="docker architecture">}}  

## Prerequisites {#prereq}

  * Ubuntu Server
  * Docker Installed on the Server
  * Node.js npm installed

## Setup Node.js Application {#setup}

To create your image, you will first need to make your application files, which you can then copy to your container. These files will include your application’s static content, code, and dependencies.

First, create a directory for your project in your non-root user’s home directory. Then, execute below command in a new folder that you created.


```
npm init -y
npm i -s express
```


The above command will set up a Node.js application with express framework installed as a dependency. Let’s add the following code into **app.js** file.


```
const express = require(‘express’);
const app = express();
app.get(‘/’, function(req,res){
  res.send(“Hello World”);
});
const port = 3000;
app.listen(port, function () {
  console.log(‘Listening on port 3000!’)
})
```


Start the application with node app.js


```
node app.js
```


Navigate your browser to http://your\_server\_ip:3000. You will see the following landing page.

Now you have an application up and running. We can now move on to create the Dockerfile that will allow us to recreate and scale this application.

## Write Dockerfile {#dockerfile}

Using Dockerfile, you can specify what will be included in your application container when it is executed and the container environment.

First of all create Dockerfile with following command at the root of your project.


```
vi Dockerfile
```


Add the following **FROM** instruction to set the application’s base image:


```
FROM node:12-alpine
```


<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    <em>You can add .dockerignore file in order to remove files that not belongs to docker image.</em>
  </p>
</blockquote>

Let’s create the **node_modules** subdirectory in /home/node along with the app directory. This will ensure that they have the needed permissions, which will be important when we create local node modules in the container with npm install.


```
...
RUN mkdir -p /home/node/app/node_modules && chown -R node:node /home/node/app
```


Next, set the working directory of the application to /home/node/app:


```
...
WORKDIR /home/node/app
```


Next, copy the package.json and package-lock.json, assign the project file to a non-root user “node” and then run the npm install


```
...
COPY package*.json ./
USER node
RUN npm install
```


Copy your application code with the appropriate permissions to the application directory on the container


```
...
COPY --chown=node:node . .
```


EXPOSE command to expose port:


```
...
EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```


Final version of Dockerfile should look like this:


```
FROM node:12-alpine
RUN mkdir -p /home/node/app/node_modules && chown -R node:node /home/node/app
WORKDIR /home/node/app
COPY package*.json ./
USER node
RUN npm install
COPY --chown=node:node . .
EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "node", "app.js" ]
```


## Build Image and Run Container {#build}

Run the following command to generate your Docker Image


```
docker build -t <<image_name>> .
```


This will generate a _docker image_ which you can check by using the docker images command. It is now possible to create a container with this image using the following command:


```
docker run — name <<container_name>> -p 3000:3000 -d <<image_name>>
```


This will start the container which you can verify by running the docker ps command. Now in your browser if you access http://localhost:3000 you’ll see your Node.js app running. However this time now its running from your Docker container.

## Conclusion {#conclusion}

Development with the Docker Container is is very simple and easy. Docker helps developers to package and run applications as containers. In this tutorial we learned how to build a node.js application using docker container on Ubuntu. In upcoming articles we’ll write about more uses of Docker and also we’ll discuss other tools.

## Explore

  * [How to Install Multiple PHP Versions with Nginx on Ubuntu][7]
  * [How to Setup and Configure Nginx as Reverse Proxy][8]

 [1]: #docker
 [2]: #prereq
 [3]: #setup
 [4]: #dockerfile
 [5]: #build
 [6]: #conclusion
 [7]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/21/how-to-install-multiple-php-versions-with-nginx-on-ubuntu/
 [8]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/05/07/how-to-setup-and-configure-nginx-as-reverse-proxy/
