content/Containerize.Blog/2021-02-08-top-5-open-source-accounting-software-in-the-year-2021/index.md, before:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021
description: Accounting software allows businesses to keep track of money coming in and out. Choose the right invoicing software and hold a tight grip on finances.
date: Mon, 08 Feb 2021 14:18:42 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Accounting software enables companies for managing finances and keeps tracking of estimates, invoices, expenses, time tracking, and payment handling.
url: /invoicing/top-5-open-source-accounting-software-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Invoicing']

---
## Accounting software enables companies for managing finances and keeps tracking of estimates, invoices, expenses, time tracking, and payment handling.

{{< figure align=center src="images/accounting-software.png" alt="Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021">}}  

Accounting software is one of the first and most critical application for any business. The right accounting system would help you to keep track of your company’s money going in and out. We have compiled a list of the top 5 free and **open source accounting** software and cover them in this blog post.

  * [**InvoiceNinja**][1]
  * [**Akaunting**][2]
  * [**InvoicePlane**][3]
  * [**Kill Bill**][4]
  * [**Crater**][5]

## InvoiceNinja {#InvoiceNinja}

**[InvoiceNinja][6]** is one of the popular and modern open source accounting software. It’s 100% free and a **self-hosted accounting** system. However, you can use it as (SaaS) software as a Service by choosing a subscription plan. **InvoiceNinja** has impressive features such as invoices, payment handling, vendors, expenses, tasks, projects, and many more. In addition, InvoiceNinja provides beautiful mobile applications for iPhone and Android devices. This open source invoicing software is PHP Laravel framework source code is available at [GitHub][7].

Here is a list of the key feature for InvoiceNinja:

  * Create and Email Invoices/Quotes in Real-Time
  * 40+ Payment Gateway Integration Options
  * Multiple Company Support
  * Create Recurring Invoicing & Auto-Bill Clients
  * Proposals Creation Tool

**[Learn more about InvoiceNinja][8]**

## Akaunting {#Akaunting}

**[Akaunting][9]** is another one of the **top open source accounting software** based on the PHP Laravel framework. It provides out of the box beautiful interfaces for desktop, mobile, and tablet. **Akaunting** comes with excellent features that fulfill the financial need of any business. Moreover, you can setup it on your private server and keep control of all the important data. Its source code is available on [GitHub][10].

Following are the key features of Akaunting:

  * Customer Management
  * Beautiful Interface
  * Mobile & Tablet Ready Interface
  * 100% Financial Data Ownership
  * Lifetime FREE Updates

**[Learn more about Akaunting][11]**

## InvoicePlane {#InvoicePlane}

**[InvoicePlane][12]** is free and self-hosted accounting software. It offers out of the box CRM (customer relationship management) module. CRM feature enables the business to manage the key information of customers. You can easily create tasks such as quotations, invoices, receipts, and payments. **InvoicePlane** supports several payment methods for financial transactions. Moreover, it supports multilingual and you can run it in the language of your choice. However, InvoicePlane is written in PHP CodeIgniter framework and all of its source code is available on [GitHub][13].

InvoicePlane offers the following key points:

  * Quotes, Invoices, Payments
  * Recurring invoices
  * Manage your Clients
  * Customize easily
  * One-Click Online Payments

**[Learn more about InvoicePlane][14]**

## Kill Bill {#KillBill}

**[Kill Bill][15]** is one of the **best open source accounting software** based on Java. It is a robust, scalable, and customizable invoicing system. It has impressive feature set that can be used to handle all the financial operations. Further, **Kill Bill** supports plugins, and you can either use available plugins or create your own for enhancing the system. Moreover, it offers an API that enables businesses to do the integration with third-party services. It’s source code is available on [GitHub][16].

Kill Bill comes up with the following key features:

  * Financial analysis
  * History tracking
  * Invoice management
  * Real time analytics
  * Real time notifications

**[Learn more about Kill Bill][17]**

## Crater {#Crater}

**[Crater][18]** is open source accounting software. It is 100% free and ideal for freelancers and small businesses. **Crater** has some great features such as invoice handling, estimates, track expenses, and payments. Further, Crater offers out of the box mobile applications for Android and iPhone devices. This **open source invoice management system** is written in the PHP Laravel framework. Moreover, its source code is available on [GitHub][19] with a complete development roadmap.

Crater supports the following important features:

  * Invoices management
  * Payment tracking
  * Extensive Reporting
  * Support Tax Handling
  * Mobile application for Android and iPhone

**[Learn more about Crater][20]**

## Conclusion

We have discussed the top 5 free and open source accounting software in this tutorial. All have a great number of features and are widely used by many businesses. You can review this blog post thoroughly and relevant links. It would also help you to choose the right accounting software for your business.

Further, [**containerize.com**][21] is on the way to enhance the stack of open source products in multiple languages and frameworks. For regular updates, please stay tuned at [**Invoicing**][22] category for more interesting articles.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant.

  * [InvoiceNinja – Open Source Invoicing Software][23]
  * [Akaunting – Open Source Accounting Software][24]
  * [InvoicePlane – Invoice Processing System][25]
  * [Kill Bill – Open Source Billing Software][26]
  * [Crater – Open Source Invoice Management System][27]

 [1]: #InvoiceNinja
 [2]: #Akaunting
 [3]: #InvoicePlane
 [4]: #KillBill
 [5]: #Crater
 [6]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceninja
 [7]: https://github.com/invoiceninja/invoiceninja
 [8]: https://www.invoiceninja.com
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/akaunting
 [10]: https://github.com/akaunting/akaunting
 [11]: https://akaunting.com
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceplane
 [13]: https://github.com/InvoicePlane/InvoicePlane
 [14]: https://www.invoiceplane.com
 [15]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/killbill
 [16]: https://github.com/killbill/killbill
 [17]: https://killbill.io
 [18]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/crater
 [19]: https://github.com/bytefury/crater
 [20]: https://craterapp.com
 [21]: https://containerize.com
 [22]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/invoicing/
 [23]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceninja/
 [24]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/akaunting/
 [25]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceplane/
 [26]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/killbill/
 [27]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/crater/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2021-02-08-top-5-open-source-accounting-software-in-the-year-2021/index.md, after:

---
title: Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021
seoTitle: Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021
description: Accounting software allows businesses to keep track of money coming in and out. Choose the right invoicing software and hold a tight grip on finances.
date: Mon, 08 Feb 2021 14:18:42 +0000
author: Masood Anwer
summary: Accounting software enables companies for managing finances and keeps tracking of estimates, invoices, expenses, time tracking, and payment handling.
url: /invoicing/top-5-open-source-accounting-software-in-the-year-2021/
aliases: 
    -  /2021/02/08/top-5-open-source-accounting-software-in-the-year-2021/
categories: ['Invoicing']

---
## Accounting software enables companies for managing finances and keeps tracking of estimates, invoices, expenses, time tracking, and payment handling.

{{< figure align=center src="images/accounting-software.png" alt="Top 5 Open Source Accounting Software In the Year 2021">}}  

Accounting software is one of the first and most critical application for any business. The right accounting system would help you to keep track of your company’s money going in and out. We have compiled a list of the top 5 free and **open source accounting** software and cover them in this blog post.

  * [**InvoiceNinja**][1]
  * [**Akaunting**][2]
  * [**InvoicePlane**][3]
  * [**Kill Bill**][4]
  * [**Crater**][5]

## InvoiceNinja {#InvoiceNinja}

**[InvoiceNinja][6]** is one of the popular and modern open source accounting software. It’s 100% free and a **self-hosted accounting** system. However, you can use it as (SaaS) software as a Service by choosing a subscription plan. **InvoiceNinja** has impressive features such as invoices, payment handling, vendors, expenses, tasks, projects, and many more. In addition, InvoiceNinja provides beautiful mobile applications for iPhone and Android devices. This open source invoicing software is PHP Laravel framework source code is available at [GitHub][7].

Here is a list of the key feature for InvoiceNinja:

  * Create and Email Invoices/Quotes in Real-Time
  * 40+ Payment Gateway Integration Options
  * Multiple Company Support
  * Create Recurring Invoicing & Auto-Bill Clients
  * Proposals Creation Tool

**[Learn more about InvoiceNinja][8]**

## Akaunting {#Akaunting}

**[Akaunting][9]** is another one of the **top open source accounting software** based on the PHP Laravel framework. It provides out of the box beautiful interfaces for desktop, mobile, and tablet. **Akaunting** comes with excellent features that fulfill the financial need of any business. Moreover, you can setup it on your private server and keep control of all the important data. Its source code is available on [GitHub][10].

Following are the key features of Akaunting:

  * Customer Management
  * Beautiful Interface
  * Mobile & Tablet Ready Interface
  * 100% Financial Data Ownership
  * Lifetime FREE Updates

**[Learn more about Akaunting][11]**

## InvoicePlane {#InvoicePlane}

**[InvoicePlane][12]** is free and self-hosted accounting software. It offers out of the box CRM (customer relationship management) module. CRM feature enables the business to manage the key information of customers. You can easily create tasks such as quotations, invoices, receipts, and payments. **InvoicePlane** supports several payment methods for financial transactions. Moreover, it supports multilingual and you can run it in the language of your choice. However, InvoicePlane is written in PHP CodeIgniter framework and all of its source code is available on [GitHub][13].

InvoicePlane offers the following key points:

  * Quotes, Invoices, Payments
  * Recurring invoices
  * Manage your Clients
  * Customize easily
  * One-Click Online Payments

**[Learn more about InvoicePlane][14]**

## Kill Bill {#KillBill}

**[Kill Bill][15]** is one of the **best open source accounting software** based on Java. It is a robust, scalable, and customizable invoicing system. It has impressive feature set that can be used to handle all the financial operations. Further, **Kill Bill** supports plugins, and you can either use available plugins or create your own for enhancing the system. Moreover, it offers an API that enables businesses to do the integration with third-party services. It’s source code is available on [GitHub][16].

Kill Bill comes up with the following key features:

  * Financial analysis
  * History tracking
  * Invoice management
  * Real time analytics
  * Real time notifications

**[Learn more about Kill Bill][17]**

## Crater {#Crater}

**[Crater][18]** is open source accounting software. It is 100% free and ideal for freelancers and small businesses. **Crater** has some great features such as invoice handling, estimates, track expenses, and payments. Further, Crater offers out of the box mobile applications for Android and iPhone devices. This **open source invoice management system** is written in the PHP Laravel framework. Moreover, its source code is available on [GitHub][19] with a complete development roadmap.

Crater supports the following important features:

  * Invoices management
  * Payment tracking
  * Extensive Reporting
  * Support Tax Handling
  * Mobile application for Android and iPhone

**[Learn more about Crater][20]**

## Conclusion

We have discussed the top 5 free and open source accounting software in this tutorial. All have a great number of features and are widely used by many businesses. You can review this blog post thoroughly and relevant links. It would also help you to choose the right accounting software for your business.

Further, [**containerize.com**][21] is on the way to enhance the stack of open source products in multiple languages and frameworks. For regular updates, please stay tuned at [**Invoicing**][22] category for more interesting articles.

## Explore

You may find the following links relevant.

  * [InvoiceNinja – Open Source Invoicing Software][23]
  * [Akaunting – Open Source Accounting Software][24]
  * [InvoicePlane – Invoice Processing System][25]
  * [Kill Bill – Open Source Billing Software][26]
  * [Crater – Open Source Invoice Management System][27]

 [1]: #InvoiceNinja
 [2]: #Akaunting
 [3]: #InvoicePlane
 [4]: #KillBill
 [5]: #Crater
 [6]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceninja
 [7]: https://github.com/invoiceninja/invoiceninja
 [8]: https://www.invoiceninja.com
 [9]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/akaunting
 [10]: https://github.com/akaunting/akaunting
 [11]: https://akaunting.com
 [12]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceplane
 [13]: https://github.com/InvoicePlane/InvoicePlane
 [14]: https://www.invoiceplane.com
 [15]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/killbill
 [16]: https://github.com/killbill/killbill
 [17]: https://killbill.io
 [18]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/crater
 [19]: https://github.com/bytefury/crater
 [20]: https://craterapp.com
 [21]: https://containerize.com
 [22]: https://blog.containerize.com/category/invoicing/
 [23]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceninja/
 [24]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/akaunting/
 [25]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/invoiceplane/
 [26]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/killbill/
 [27]: https://products.containerize.com/invoicing/crater/
