content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-25-an-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-what-is-ai/index.md, before:

---
title: An Introduction to Artificial Intelligence | What is AI?
seoTitle: An Introduction to Artificial Intelligence | What is AI?
description: Follow this guide to learn what is AI and the applications of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has brought a revolution in all sectors of life.
date: Wed, 25 Jan 2023 07:23:31 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: Artificial intelligence is the fourth industrial revolution that is reshaping the world. The fundamentals of AI are based on machine learning and NLP.
url: /artificial-intelligence/an-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-what-is-ai/
categories: ['Artificial intelligence']

---
## Artificial intelligence is the fourth industrial revolution that is reshaping the world. The fundamentals of AI are based on machine learning and NLP.

{{< figure align=center src="images/An-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-What-is-AI.png" alt="What is AI">}}  

## Overview

Artificial intelligence is the top-rated topic at the current point in time. In fact, the future totally belongs to AI and many popular tech giants are making huge time and resource investments in this branch of computer science. Recently, a huge change brought a revolution because of which heavy-weight machines turned into small chips and transistors. In addition, intelligent machines are heavily removing manpower due to their rich processing and decision-making techniques. However, the advent of Artificial intelligence has given a new direction to the tech world. Though it is costly for the business and requires resources. In this blog post, we will go through an introduction to artificial intelligence and will try to get the answer to “**What is AI**“?

The following topics will be covered in this blog post:

  * [**What is Artificial Intelligence(AI)?**][1]
  * [**Types of Artificial Intelligence**][2]
  * **[Applications of Artificial Intelligence][3]**

## What is Artificial Intelligence(AI)? {#What-is-Artificial-Intelligence}

Artificial intelligence is a subject of computer science that points to the simulation of human intelligence in machines. It is a step towards making human-made machines smart enough to process huge data sets and resolve complex problems. As per this branch of computer study, computers are programmed to self-learning and draw self-driven results. Machine learning and natural language processing(NLP) have made AI think and process things like a human brain. Machine learning is a process in which machines are capable enough to learn with the help of data, and training. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/artificial-intelligence-1.png" alt="An introduction to artificial intelligence">}}  

However, Machine learning uses deep learning which is a neural network method in which multiple processing elements are connected with one another in a layered structure. In AI, processing machines learn things based on datasets and trial methods and do not necessarily need to be programmed again and again for different jobs.

## Types of Artificial Intelligence {#Types-of-Artificial-Intelligence}

Mainly, there are two types of Artificial intelligence. This section of the blog post will demonstrate these two types. 

#### Weak Artificial intelligence 

As per this category of AI, systems are designed to solve less complex problems. These systems take input, process the natural language processes, and give the output. Although, these systems generate the response based on the data and past statistics but cannot process the problems out of their scope. Hence, the scope of this category is not unlimited. The best examples of Weak AI are [Apple’s Siri][4] and other virtual assistant tools developed by [Google][5] and [Amazon][6]. 

#### Strong Artificial Intelligence 

Strong Artificial intelligence offers the exact simulation of the human brain. Artificial General Intelligence and Artificial Superintelligence also come under this category. This category designs systems and models that contain the ability to process things and take decisions without human intervention. Interactive Robots are examples of strong AI and self-driving cars are also enriched with systems that are trained with huge data sets and are capable of take decisions using neural network. In addition, such systems can make predictions based on their past experience.

## **Applications of Artificial Intelligence** {#Applications-of-Artificial-Intelligence}

The following points will give you an idea of some prominent applications of Artificial intelligence:

**Speech Recognition**: Natural language processing is the major branch of AI that processes the human voice and gives the output in written or another form. This feature is available on many devices such as mobile phones, cars, and more.

**Facial Recognition**: As per this application, AI can compare multiple facial visions and has the ability to detect a specific face structure. In addition, you can use Artificial intelligence to match and point out different speech accents, handwriting, noise, and more.

**Robotics**: This is another fast-growing application in which intelligent robots can perform many tasks using highly efficient sensors and processors. Hospitals, Restaurants, and education departments have been using AI robots.

**Gaming**: Gaming is another field in which Artificial intelligence has been massively used. In fact, AI is used to recognize the behavior of the players and respond with logical moves. So, there are many popular names that use AI such as Chess, FIFA, and more.

**Social Media:** Social media platforms such as [Instagram][7], [Facebook][8], and [Twitter][9] use Artificial intelligence to analyze users’ interests and recommend content based on their activities and interests. Further, all these platforms are using AI extensively to remove hate and false content.

**Chatbots**: Chatbots are considered an integral component of any business’s website. The best and most recent example of an AI-powered chatbot is [ChatGPT][10]. 

## Conclusion

This is the end of this blog post. We have gone through some interesting introductions to Artificial intelligence. Moreover, we have tried to answer questions such as What is Artificial intelligence? What is a neural network? In addition, we also have gone through applications of Artificial intelligence, and types of Artificial intelligence. Further, there are some important thoughts prevailing in the community that AI will affect employment and will take over many sectors of life. However, AI is evolving day by day, and bringing further advancements are on the way. Well, there are other articles in the “See Also” section below. Therefore, do not forget to check them out.

Finally, [containerize.com][11] continuously writes blog posts on other open-source products and other trending topics. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][12], [LinkedIn][13], and [Twitter][14]. You will definitely enjoy reading our informative content. 

## Ask a Question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][15].

## FAQs

**What is AI and its types?**

Please follow this [link][1] to know about Artificial intelligence. In addition, this link will demonstrate the [types][2] of AI. 

## See Also

  * [How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT][16]
  * [What is OpenAI Chatbot GPT-3 | ChatGPT an AI Revolution][10]
  * [Top 5 Open Source Business Intelligence Tools][17]
  * [How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub][18]

 [1]: #What-is-Artificial-Intelligence
 [2]: #Types-of-Artificial-Intelligence
 [3]: #Applications-of-Artificial-Intelligence
 [4]: https://www.apple.com/siri/
 [5]: https://assistant.google.com/
 [6]: https://www.google.com/search?q=amazon+alexa&rlz=1C5CHFA_enPK998PK998&oq=amazon&aqs=chrome.0.0i67j46i67i199i433i465j0i67l2j0i67i433j69i60l3.2098j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
 [7]: https://instagram.com/
 [8]: https://www.facebook.com/
 [9]: https://twitter.com/home
 [10]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/10/what-is-openai-chatbot-gpt-3-chatgpt-an-ai-revolution/
 [11]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [12]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [13]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [14]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [15]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [16]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/17/how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/
 [17]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/04/21/top-5-open-source-business-intelligence-solutions-of-2021/]
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/14/how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/

Commit message:

aliases added to prevent 404 old wp urls

content/Containerize.Blog/2023-01-25-an-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-what-is-ai/index.md, after:

---
title: An Introduction to Artificial Intelligence | What is AI?
seoTitle: An Introduction to Artificial Intelligence | What is AI?
description: Follow this guide to learn what is AI and the applications of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has brought a revolution in all sectors of life.
date: Wed, 25 Jan 2023 07:23:31 +0000
author: muhammadmustafa
summary: Artificial intelligence is the fourth industrial revolution that is reshaping the world. The fundamentals of AI are based on machine learning and NLP.
url: /artificial-intelligence/an-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-what-is-ai/
aliases: 
    -  /2023/01/25/an-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-what-is-ai/
categories: ['Artificial intelligence']

---
## Artificial intelligence is the fourth industrial revolution that is reshaping the world. The fundamentals of AI are based on machine learning and NLP.

{{< figure align=center src="images/An-introduction-to-artificial-intelligence-What-is-AI.png" alt="What is AI">}}  

## Overview

Artificial intelligence is the top-rated topic at the current point in time. In fact, the future totally belongs to AI and many popular tech giants are making huge time and resource investments in this branch of computer science. Recently, a huge change brought a revolution because of which heavy-weight machines turned into small chips and transistors. In addition, intelligent machines are heavily removing manpower due to their rich processing and decision-making techniques. However, the advent of Artificial intelligence has given a new direction to the tech world. Though it is costly for the business and requires resources. In this blog post, we will go through an introduction to artificial intelligence and will try to get the answer to “**What is AI**“?

The following topics will be covered in this blog post:

  * [**What is Artificial Intelligence(AI)?**][1]
  * [**Types of Artificial Intelligence**][2]
  * **[Applications of Artificial Intelligence][3]**

## What is Artificial Intelligence(AI)? {#What-is-Artificial-Intelligence}

Artificial intelligence is a subject of computer science that points to the simulation of human intelligence in machines. It is a step towards making human-made machines smart enough to process huge data sets and resolve complex problems. As per this branch of computer study, computers are programmed to self-learning and draw self-driven results. Machine learning and natural language processing(NLP) have made AI think and process things like a human brain. Machine learning is a process in which machines are capable enough to learn with the help of data, and training. 

{{< figure align=center src="images/artificial-intelligence-1.png" alt="An introduction to artificial intelligence">}}  

However, Machine learning uses deep learning which is a neural network method in which multiple processing elements are connected with one another in a layered structure. In AI, processing machines learn things based on datasets and trial methods and do not necessarily need to be programmed again and again for different jobs.

## Types of Artificial Intelligence {#Types-of-Artificial-Intelligence}

Mainly, there are two types of Artificial intelligence. This section of the blog post will demonstrate these two types. 

#### Weak Artificial intelligence 

As per this category of AI, systems are designed to solve less complex problems. These systems take input, process the natural language processes, and give the output. Although, these systems generate the response based on the data and past statistics but cannot process the problems out of their scope. Hence, the scope of this category is not unlimited. The best examples of Weak AI are [Apple’s Siri][4] and other virtual assistant tools developed by [Google][5] and [Amazon][6]. 

#### Strong Artificial Intelligence 

Strong Artificial intelligence offers the exact simulation of the human brain. Artificial General Intelligence and Artificial Superintelligence also come under this category. This category designs systems and models that contain the ability to process things and take decisions without human intervention. Interactive Robots are examples of strong AI and self-driving cars are also enriched with systems that are trained with huge data sets and are capable of take decisions using neural network. In addition, such systems can make predictions based on their past experience.

## **Applications of Artificial Intelligence** {#Applications-of-Artificial-Intelligence}

The following points will give you an idea of some prominent applications of Artificial intelligence:

**Speech Recognition**: Natural language processing is the major branch of AI that processes the human voice and gives the output in written or another form. This feature is available on many devices such as mobile phones, cars, and more.

**Facial Recognition**: As per this application, AI can compare multiple facial visions and has the ability to detect a specific face structure. In addition, you can use Artificial intelligence to match and point out different speech accents, handwriting, noise, and more.

**Robotics**: This is another fast-growing application in which intelligent robots can perform many tasks using highly efficient sensors and processors. Hospitals, Restaurants, and education departments have been using AI robots.

**Gaming**: Gaming is another field in which Artificial intelligence has been massively used. In fact, AI is used to recognize the behavior of the players and respond with logical moves. So, there are many popular names that use AI such as Chess, FIFA, and more.

**Social Media:** Social media platforms such as [Instagram][7], [Facebook][8], and [Twitter][9] use Artificial intelligence to analyze users’ interests and recommend content based on their activities and interests. Further, all these platforms are using AI extensively to remove hate and false content.

**Chatbots**: Chatbots are considered an integral component of any business’s website. The best and most recent example of an AI-powered chatbot is [ChatGPT][10]. 

## Conclusion

This is the end of this blog post. We have gone through some interesting introductions to Artificial intelligence. Moreover, we have tried to answer questions such as What is Artificial intelligence? What is a neural network? In addition, we also have gone through applications of Artificial intelligence, and types of Artificial intelligence. Further, there are some important thoughts prevailing in the community that AI will affect employment and will take over many sectors of life. However, AI is evolving day by day, and bringing further advancements are on the way. Well, there are other articles in the “See Also” section below. Therefore, do not forget to check them out.

Finally, [containerize.com][11] continuously writes blog posts on other open-source products and other trending topics. Moreover, you can follow us on our social media accounts [Facebook][12], [LinkedIn][13], and [Twitter][14]. You will definitely enjoy reading our informative content. 

## Ask a Question

You can let us know about your questions or queries on our [forum][15].

## FAQs

**What is AI and its types?**

Please follow this [link][1] to know about Artificial intelligence. In addition, this link will demonstrate the [types][2] of AI. 

## See Also

  * [How to use ChatGPT in VSCode | The VSCode Extension Code GPT][16]
  * [What is OpenAI Chatbot GPT-3 | ChatGPT an AI Revolution][10]
  * [Top 5 Open Source Business Intelligence Tools][17]
  * [How to Start With Open-Source Social Media Platform | HumHub][18]

 [1]: #What-is-Artificial-Intelligence
 [2]: #Types-of-Artificial-Intelligence
 [3]: #Applications-of-Artificial-Intelligence
 [4]: https://www.apple.com/siri/
 [5]: https://assistant.google.com/
 [6]: https://www.google.com/search?q=amazon+alexa&rlz=1C5CHFA_enPK998PK998&oq=amazon&aqs=chrome.0.0i67j46i67i199i433i465j0i67l2j0i67i433j69i60l3.2098j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
 [7]: https://instagram.com/
 [8]: https://www.facebook.com/
 [9]: https://twitter.com/home
 [10]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/10/what-is-openai-chatbot-gpt-3-chatgpt-an-ai-revolution/
 [11]: https://www.containerize.com/
 [12]: https://web.facebook.com/containerize
 [13]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/containerize/
 [14]: https://twitter.com/containerize_co
 [15]: https://forum.containerize.com/
 [16]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/17/how-to-use-chatgpt-in-vscode-the-vscode-extension-codegpt/
 [17]: https://blog.containerize.com/2021/04/21/top-5-open-source-business-intelligence-solutions-of-2021/]
 [18]: https://blog.containerize.com/2023/01/14/how-to-start-with-open-source-social-media-platform-humhub/
